<DOCNO>1050</DOCNO>
<URL>https://catalog.uic.edu/gcat</URL>
<TEXT>2022–2023 Graduate Catalog < University of Illinois at Chicago Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home UIC Home Toggle menu Undergraduate Graduate Print / Download Options Search Catalog Academic Catalog 2022-2024 Graduate Catalog Catalog Navigation Down arrow icon Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar The University Graduate Study at UIC Degree Programs Colleges &​ Schools Graduate Course Descriptions Graduate College Graduate Faculty Archive &​ Links Graduate College Website All Course Descriptions Home / Graduate Catalog 2022–2023 Graduate Catalog The Graduate Catalog The online catalog is updated as degree programs, courses, and requirements change. The catalog is an academic planning tool for graduate students and is divided into five major sections. In addition, the catalog provides a listing of the graduate faculty and links to the Graduate College website and catalog archive. The University Graduate Study at UIC Degree Programs Colleges & Schools Graduate Course Descriptions Each section of the online catalog, described below, provides information necessary for the academic planning process. The University The University section provides an overview of the University of Illinois Chicago. Graduate Study at UIC The Graduate Study at UIC section outlines admissions, application, degree requirement, and university information pertinent to all Graduate College students. Degree Programs The Degree Programs section lists all graduate and professional degree programs and certificate programs available at UIC. It also provides a list of program updates and changes. Colleges & Schools The Colleges & Schools section describes graduate degree programs and their requirements in detail. Students use this section of the catalog to ensure that they understand and meet all requirements for their degree program. Graduate Course Descriptions The Graduate Course Descriptions section lists all the graduate courses at UIC. The course descriptions are arranged alphabetically by subject area. Each course description includes a rubric (subject area abbreviation), course number, course title, semester hours, prerequisites (if any), and course content. A list of rubrics may be found at the beginning of the Graduate Course Descriptions section. The online catalog includes all courses at UIC. However, not all courses are offered during a given semester. Students will find current course offerings in the Schedule of Classes , which is published online before registration begins. 2022–2023 Graduate Catalog Nondiscrimination Statement The commitment of the University of Illinois System to the most fundamental principles of academic freedom, equality of opportunity, and human dignity requires that decisions involving students and employees be based on individual merit and be free from invidious discrimination in all its forms. The University of Illinois System will not engage in discrimination or harassment against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, order of protection status, genetic information, disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation including gender identity, unfavorable discharge from the military or status as a protected veteran and will comply with all federal and state nondiscrimination, equal opportunity and affirmative action laws, orders and regulations. This nondiscrimination policy applies to admissions, employment, access to and treatment in the programs and activities of the University of Illinois System. Complaint and grievance procedures provide employees and students with the means for the resolution of complaints that allege a violation of this Statement. Members of the public should direct their inquiries or complaints to the appropriate equal opportunity office. Revised November 12, 2020 Chancellor’s Statement of Commitment to Persons with Disabilities Guided by the belief that people with disabilities are assets to the University, UIC is committed to full inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in all aspects of University life. We seek to provide an academic, social, and physical environment that makes disabled people integral to the diversity of perspectives that is vital to an academic community. UIC supports the principles of universally accessible design, alternative communication formats, and the expression of disability community and pride. At all levels of the University, UIC promotes equal opportunity, fair treatment, and the elimination of barriers for qualified individuals with disabilities. Office for Access and Equity UIC is committed to providing and preserving an educational and work environment free from all forms of sex discrimination, sexual harassment and other sexual misconduct (collectively referred to as “sexual misconduct”). UIC prohibits and will not tolerate sexual misconduct of or by students, employees, patients, applicants for enrollment or employment, or others in its education programs or activities. Please visit the UIC Sexual M isconduct website s , and how to report an incident. To report sexual misconduct to the University or f or additional information or assistance with the equal opportunity, affirmative action, and harassment policies and procedures of the University of Illinois Chicago, please contact: Office for Access and Equity titleix@uic.edu oaeada@uic.edu http://oae.uic.edu To make a complaint to the U.S. Department of Education, contact: U.S. Department of Education ocr.chicago@ed.gov Public Formal Grievance Procedures University of Illinois Chicago I. Introduction These procedures have been implemented to address complaints of discrimination on the basis of age and/or disability in any activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration that is related to the operation of University’s programs. II. Eligibility These procedures may be used by any member of the public who alleges age (Under the Age Discrimination Act) or disability (Under Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act) discrimination on the basis of class. However, anyone who wishes to challenge a decision made about them by an agent of the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) in the course of their employment or enrollment at UIC must utilize the UIC Academic Grievance Procedures. III. Definitions A. Grievance: A written statement submitted by a Grievant identifying the activity, policy, rule, standard or method of administration he/she claims to be discriminatory on the basis of age and/or disability and explaining the manner in which that activity, policy, rule, standard or method of administration discriminates. All Grievances must be signed by the Grievant and must outline the Grievant’s allegations in as much detail as possible. B. Grievant: Any member of the public who submits a Grievance. C. Grievance Officer: The assigned investigator of the UIC Office for Access and Equity can be contacted at the address below: Office for Access and Equity (MC 602) http://oae.uic.edu D. Appeals Officer: The Associate Chancellor for Access and Equity or his/her designee. E. Days: Any reference to “days” herein shall refer to business days (excluding weekends and federal holidays). F. Record: The complete record of a Grievance will consist of the original Grievance and any supporting information or documentation submitted with that Grievance, the Grievance Officer’s findings, the Appeal (if any) and any additional information or documentation submitted with the Appeal, the Appeal Officer’s findings, and any communications and notices relative to the Grievance. The Record will be maintained for at least five (5) years following the final decision. IV. Grievance Process Filing of the Grievance: The Grievant must file his/her Grievance with the Grievance Officer no later than ten (10) days after he/she becomes aware of the offending activity, policy, standard or method of administration. Investigation: Appeal: Deviation from the Process: Effective date of policy is September 1, 2005. University of Illinois at Chicago Apply Online Contact Admissions Privacy Statement Contact the Webmaster . Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of the entire Graduate Catalog All pages in the campus catalog. Cancel</TEXT>