<DOCNO>1102</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ready.uic.edu/planning/clery-compliance/annual-security-and-fire-safety-report</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Preparedness and Response Main Menu Expand GUIDELINES menu Expand PLANNING menu Expand TOOLKIT menu Expand REPORTING menu Expand ABOUT menu Eyebrow menu Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of Preparedness and Response PLANNING Clery Compliance Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Annual Security and Fire Safety Report The Clery Act requires colleges and universities that receive federal funding to disseminate a public annual report to employees and students every October 1st. The report must include statistics of campus crime for the preceding 3 calendar years, plus details about efforts taken to improve campus safety. Colleges and universities that have on-campus student housing facilities must also disseminate fire safety policies and statistics for their on-campus student housing facilities. UIC complies with the Clery Act by annually publishing the UIC Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (ASFSR). The ASFSR also includes policy statements regarding crime reporting, campus facility security and access, law enforcement authority, incidence of alcohol and drug use, and the prevention of/response to sexual assault, domestic or dating violence, and stalking. View Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC is required to compile annual crime statistics concerning certain crimes that are reported to Campus Security Authorities or local police agencies. Crimes disclosed in the ASFSR include Clery Act crimes that occurred on UIC’s Clery Geography (on-campus property, on-campus student housing facilities, noncampus property, and public property immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus). Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Criminal Offenses: Hate Crimes: Violence Against Women Act Offenses: Arrests and Referrals for Disciplinary Action: Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link To learn more about UIC Clery Geography, including Clery Geography maps of each campus, see the Travel & Geography Reporting PLANNING Back to main content Emergency Management Emergency Operations Plan Chancellor’s Emergency Operations Policy Group Practice Standards Violence Prevention Violence Prevention Strategies Behavioral Threat Assessments Teams BTAT for Students BTAT for Employees Your role in Violence Prevention Get involved! Clery Act Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Crime Reporting Forms Clery Geography Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) Clery Governance Chancellor’s EOPG Advisory Working Group Clery Act Compliance Committee UI Clery Coordination Council, Regional Committee Continuity of Operations University of Illinois Ready Threat/Hazard Mitigation Threat and Hazards Identification Risk Assessment Hazard Mitigation Plan Training & Exercising Training Events Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan (MYTEP) Exercises Emergency Management Institute’s Curriculum FEMA – Independent Study Courses FEMA Student Identification Number (FEMA SID) Incident Command Continuity of Operations Campus Seminars Practice Standards University of Illinois Chicago Campus Planning Emergency Operations Plan Violence Prevention Plan Clery Compliance Continuity of Operations Threat and Hazards Identification Risk Assessment Hazard Mitigation Plan Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan (MYTEP) Emergency Response Guidelines Active Threat/Shooter Building Evacuation Extreme Heat Fire (candles, cooking, smoking) Shelter-in-Place Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Office of Preparedness and Response 1140 S. Paulina St. Suite 109 ready@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>