<DOCNO>1115</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ready.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Preparedness and Response Main Menu Expand GUIDELINES menu Expand PLANNING menu Expand TOOLKIT menu Expand REPORTING menu Expand ABOUT menu Eyebrow menu Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search We prepare for the worst so you can live & learn @ your best Edit icon CSA Incident Reporting User icon Anonymous Incident Reporting Map pin icon Travel & Geography Reporting People Icon Partner with us Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The 2021-2022 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (ASFSR) highlights the many safety and security procedures, programs, and services available at UIC and our regional health and sciences campuses. The report offers so much more than crime statistics- it’s a tool for you to discover how you can contribute to campus safety, the programs and resources at your disposal, and it offers a peek at the many working elements that come together to make UIC a safer and more resilient university. Discover how we all play a role in this effort through exploring the 2021-2022 ASFSR! Learn more about the Clery Act Be Aware and Prepared with the UIC Active Threat Preparedness Toolkit Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Aware and Prepared This page offers a selection of active threat preparedness and responses products, tools, and resources, including our new training video to instruct our students and employees on the “ Evacuate, Evade or Engage ” protocol. Finding yourself in such a situation can cause extreme panic and disorientation. But if you know what to do ahead of time, your chances of surviving this type of emergency situation are greatly increased. A prepared UIC is a resilient UIC! Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Join the #UICReady listserv Access Continuity Planning Tool Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Update your Emergency Contact Information Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Sign up for the UIC ALERT! Receiving timely information about severe weather conditions or other emergency events affecting the university can make all the difference in knowing when to take immediate action to remain safe. Sign up today! ¡Escucha nuestro nuevo y divertido proyecto de audio experimental! Estas pequeñas cápsulas de audio están dirigidas a personas que hablamos español y presentan contenido sobre salud, seguridad y prevención en una forma en la que probablemente no lo habías escuchado antes. ¡ Escucha aquí y diviértete ! Check out our new fun and experimental audio project! The short audio capsules are addressed to Spanish speakers and they present health, safety and preparedness content in a way that you have probably not heard before. Listen here and have fun! Don’t know Spanish? Find the translated transcripts Zero Dark Ready Blog Emergency planning commentary – publishing actionable information and resources about disasters, pandemics, active threat, and more. Topics range from new active shooter and violence prevention programs in schools, the latest cybersecurity practices changing how we operate, 3 ways to create a more equitable and inclusive emergency management, and much more. Blog posts Emergency Management as a Career As part of our campaign for National Preparedness Month 2021, we engaged subject-matter experts in the field of emergency management to have them weigh in on a few key areas. Our goal is to support increased visibility of EM as a profession ( #MakeEMMoreVisible ), not only for those who may be studying it at UIC, but also for those who may be considering entering the field. Check out the interviews! Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link NACCOP 2019 UIC was awarded the Clery Compliance Program of the Year award by the National Association of Clery Compliance Officers and Professionals for its campus safety programs. GDUSA 2021 The 2020 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report was awarded GDUSA’s (Graphic Design USA) American Inhouse Design Awards in 2021. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link A'DESIGN 2021 The 2020 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report won the Bronze A’DESIGN Award in Print and Published Media by the International Design Academy in 2021. ADOBE 2021 The 2020 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report landed the FINALIST category in the Adobe Creativity Government Awards 2021. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link What can UIC Ready do for me? Find out all that UIC Ready has to offer- partner with us! ready@uic.edu I want graphics and safety resources for my department. Can you help? Let’s find customized solutions for your unit, college or department! Contact Adriana Solis Martinez at asolis2@uic.edu How do I include violence prevention efforts in my unit? We’re here to support your students and staff! For training and resources on campus violence prevention and Clery reporting, contact Nicole Sammartino at University of Illinois Chicago Campus Planning Emergency Operations Plan Violence Prevention Plan Clery Compliance Continuity of Operations Threat and Hazards Identification Risk Assessment Hazard Mitigation Plan Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan (MYTEP) Emergency Response Guidelines Active Threat/Shooter Building Evacuation Extreme Heat Fire (candles, cooking, smoking) Shelter-in-Place Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Office of Preparedness and Response 1140 S. Paulina St. Suite 109 ready@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>