<DOCNO>1170</DOCNO>
<URL>https://research.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Research Development menu Expand Sponsored Programs menu Expand Compliance menu Expand Postdoctoral menu Eyebrow menu COVID19 Information Standard Institutional Information Faculty Experts Contact UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Edit icon Forms Document icon Policies People Icon Training Computer icon Online Submissions Envelope icon Report a Concern Microscope Icon COVID-19 Information UIC Research Nominate a Researcher/Scholar of the Year UIC Research is live! Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research (OVCR) advances and safeguards all research at UIC to facilitate the discoveries that help others and change the world. By investing, facilitating and ensuring the integrity of the exceptional research of UIC, we are committed to an ambitious, aspirational and collaborative commitment to the mission and vision of the University of Illinois as a major comprehensive urban research university for the 21st century. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link $ Million For the fourth consecutive year, UIC's sponsored awards have reached new highs $ Million in research expenditures last year % increase in the awards portfolio over the last 4 years Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Research Projects in FY22 Million square feet of research space on campus # ranking in sponsored research expenditures among Hispanic-Serving Institutions Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link MIT engineers have devised a way to generate images of viral particles using a light microscope. In this video, the white dots represent clusters of proteins embedded in the viral envelope, and the red dots represent the computationally extracted central positions of these clusters. Credit: Ruixuan Gao and Boyden Lab Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Photo credit: Dan Clark/USFWS Landscape view of Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge, home to the world’s largest albatross colony, with more than a million Laysan Albatross returning to breed each year. However, invasive house mice began to attack and kill nesting albatross and are consequently slated for eradication in July 2022. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide American Framing, the U.S. Pavilion at the 17th International Venice Architecture Biennale, 2021 Softwood construction originated in the early 19th century United States as a pragmatic, accessible structural system for settlers with limited resources and technical skills. Today, 90 percent of American homes are built with wood framing—an ordinary sameness in a country that celebrates individuality. Curated by School of Architecture faculty members Paul Andersen and Paul Preissner, the U.S. Pavilion at the 2021 Venice Architecture Biennale calls attention to this ubiquitous but overlooked building method in a collection of designed and documentary works. A four-story installation—a familiar but monumental half-section of a wood-framed house, with exaggerated proportions—forms a new facade through which visitors enter. Inside the pavilion's galleries, commissioned photographs explore the social realities and cultural mythologies of wood framing; physical models, built by School of Architecture students as part of advanced seminars on the topic, illustrate significant historical examples. School faculty Ania Jaworska and Thomas Kelley (with his practice Norman Kelley) contributed furniture that reinterprets softwood construction to the installation and the courtyard it defines. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide The image was acquired by the Research Tissue Imaging Core TFF1 expression in porcine lung. The staining was optimized as part of an effort to create an oncopig lung cancer model. The optimization and staining were performed by the Research Histology Core. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Tara McCray, PhD from Nonn lab. 8-14 days organoids grown from patient prostate tissue Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Genome Research Core Loading of the SpectroCHIP Array into the MassARRAY System (Agena Bioscience) for high-throughput genotyping. This system uses matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization - time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry for the precise detection of genetic variants by analysis of their individual mass, eliminating the need for fluorescence or labeling. University of Illinois Chicago Tools UIC Research IRB UIC Research COI MyProposals OSPWeb MyResearch Portal InfoReady Resources PI Eligibility and Approval Procedures Find Funding Proposal Submission Forms ACC Forms Checklist for Clinical Trials Data Management Resources Questions? Contact Us Events and Deadlines OVCR Job Opportunities Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research 1737 West Polk Street, Suite 310, MC 672, Chicago, IL 60612 Phone: (312) 996-4995 Fax: (312 ) 996-9598 ovcrweb@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>