<DOCNO>119</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/uic-fall-covid-19-guidance</URL>
<TEXT>UIC fall COVID-19 guidance | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory UIC fall COVID-19 guidance Dear faculty, staff and students, As noted in an earlier message today by the University of Illinois System , many of the COVID-19 safety measures you are familiar with will remain in place for the fall semester. The safety measures include: COVID-19 vaccinations Masks continue to be required in classrooms, lecture centers, research labs, the libraries and learning/success centers, health care settings, and on UIC shuttles and buses. Masking is highly encouraged in other settings, including at events, but it is a choice based on personal risk. Faculty, staff and students who COVID-19 Reporting Tool . Test results from on-campus saliva testing locations will be automatically reported to UIC contact tracing. COVID-19 saliva testing continues to be available at Student Center East, Student Center West and the Behavioral Sciences Building, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. UI Health offers UIC saliva testing onsite for employees. For additional information about mandatory testing groups, preparing for the test and obtaining test results, visit the COVID-19 saliva testing webpage . Faculty, staff and students s COVID-19 university travel guidance . Most importantly, stay home if you are ill or have COVID-19 symptoms UIC continues to monitor community and campus transmission along with recommendations from our public health partners to inform any changes to our COVID-19 guidance. However, the UIC COVID-19 dashboard will no longer be available online effective Aug. 12. Your compliance with our health and safety measures for close to three years has made UIC a model for how higher education institutions can successfully return to in-person teaching and research. Your continued efforts are greatly appreciated, and we look forward to welcoming you back safely to campus. Sincerely, Javier Reyes Interim Chancellor Robert Barish, MD, MBA Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs Susan Bleasdale, MD Chief Quality Officer and Assistant Vice Chancellor for Quality & Patient Safety Contact UIC News staff uicnews-staff@uic.edu Categories Chancellor officials , Official Communications Topics coronavirus , COVID-19 , vaccination , vaccine UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>