<DOCNO>1198</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/pilot-and-feasibility-funds-to-support-uic-institutes-for-interdisciplinary-research</URL>
<TEXT>Pilot and feasibility funds to support UIC institutes for interdisciplinary research | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Pilot and feasibility funds to support UIC institutes for interdisciplinary research Dear colleagues, Last spring, we invited proposals for planning awards to develop a small number of new university research institutes at UIC. We were overwhelmed by the many outstanding proposals submitted, representing 600 faculty and every college. The Executive Cabinet and OVCR engaged leadership from the Faculty Senate Executive Committee and Faculty Senate Research Subcommittee to ensure proposals went through a rigorous review process.  Senate leaders developed a rubric for determining a fair and thorough assessment. The Executive Cabinet, OVCR, Faculty Senate Research Subcommittee and other strategic campus leaders, faculty and researchers who were not represented on any submitted proposal then reviewed and scored proposals, ultimately yielding a short list of finalists. We are delighted to announce four proposals have been selected for further development. These teams may receive up to $2 million each over the next four years to expand interdisciplinary research efforts that could not be achieved by any one individual, department, college or discipline, and create collective research efforts that are greater than the sum of their parts. Addiction and Mental Health: “Addictions in Context, Advancing Interventions,” Energy and the Environment: “Advanced Materials for Green Energy Sustainability,” Functional Materials Sciences: “Functional and Regenerative Materials,” Visual Sciences: “Translational Vision Science and Technology,” We also received many impressive proposals for research in the broad topics of data science and health informatics. While meritorious, some of these projects were overlapping or complementary in both topic areas and faculty. An Institute Planning Award will be supported on these topics, but further facilitated discussion to refine the scope of the project and the team of investigators is pending. The creativity and breadth of scope in the pool of submitted proposals were energizing. We want to convey how much we appreciate all efforts toward building interdisciplinary teams among our campus colleagues to advance research at UIC. OVCR research leaders are already working to identify alternative approaches to secure external funding for some of the many terrific proposals that cannot be supported by the budget of this program. Please visit the Institute Planning Awards website Congratulations to those selected to move forward! Sincerely, Javier Reyes Karen Colley Robert Barish Joanna Groden TJ Augustine For more information, please contact: rds@uic.edu Contact UIC News staff uicnews-staff@uic.edu Categories Chancellor officials , Official Communications UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>