<DOCNO>1200</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/announcing-the-search-for-the-dean-of-the-uic-college-of-business-administration</URL>
<TEXT>Announcing the search for the dean of the UIC College of Business Administration | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Announcing the search for the dean of the UIC College of Business Administration Dear colleagues, Last week, we opened a national search for the next dean of the UIC College of Business Administration. Michael Mikhail returned to the faculty in August, and Sandy Wayne, professor of management, associate dean for faculty affairs and director of the Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLead), currently is serving as interim dean. The university seeks an experienced and strategic leader with a deep commitment to access and academic excellence to serve as the next dean of the College of Business Administration, who will help preserve and elevate the college’s rich and diverse culture, its ability to evolve and adapt to changes reflected in the local and global business community, and its legacy as a destination of choice for aspiring business leaders. The next dean of the College of Business Administration will take the helm of a college composed of nearly 150 faculty spread across six academic departments, which has grown significantly in stature and size over the last decade. The dean reports to the provost and is a permanent member of the University Deans Council. Read the full position profile. We have retained the search firm WittKieffer to assist in recruiting candidates, and the search committee Please feel free to share this opportunity widely with your networks and colleagues at other universities. The advertisement for the position and information about the search is available on the search webpage. For fullest consideration, candidates should submit an electronic application , cover letter and CV/résumé no later than Thursday, Feb. 2, 2023. Nominations and inquiries can be directed to Ryan Crawford, Bree Liddell and Luis Bertot at UIC-CBADean@wittkieffer.com . Sincerely, Karen Colley For more information, please contact: fabid2@uic.edu Contact UIC News staff uicnews-staff@uic.edu Categories Official Communications , Provost officials UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>