<DOCNO>1201</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/tomorrow-is-givingtuesday-2</URL>
<TEXT>Tomorrow is GivingTuesday | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Tomorrow is GivingTuesday Dear colleagues, What I find common among many of us who work for UIC is our dedication to its unique mission. Each of us is inspired by a different piece of it. GivingTuesday, happening tomorrow, is a day built for all of us to show our support for the piece of UIC’s mission that most inspires and fulfills us. Your contributions on givingtuesday.uic.edu , no matter the size, goes immediately to helping a person or initiative to do bigger, bolder work in an area that matters to you. The goal on GivingTuesday, as always, is participation. Know that collectively, your donations at all levels make an incredible impact on the good work happening across UIC. Last year, the vast majority of GivingTuesday gifts were under $250. Yet total contributions topped $1 million. And of 1,828 donors who participated, more than 31% were faculty and staff. Of course, there are many ways to participate If we can meet our GivingTuesday goal of topping 2,000 donors, it will build on a time of incredible momentum at UIC. We could add this feat to record-breaking enrollment and research numbers, a rise in the rankings that matter and the success of our history-making IGNITE Campaign. Here’s a tip: Keep an eye on the leaderboard to see how we’re doing. I’m proud to work alongside you each day to support students and faculty, pursue new knowledge, uplift communities and fight for justice and equity. If past GivingTuesdays are any indication, I’m confident tomorrow’s results will be nothing less than remarkable. Thank you and go Flames! Tom Wamsley Vice Chancellor for Advancement Contact UIC News contributor uictoday@uic.edu Categories Official Communications , VC Advancement officials UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>