<DOCNO>121</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/about/faculty/teaching-resources/online-teaching-essentials</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs College of Engineering About Faculty Teaching Resources Online Teaching Essentials Online Teaching Essentials Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Recommended resources for online teaching and office hours. Get started Sign in https://uic.blackboard.com Instructions and Videos Notes Recommended Also great for TA office hours. You or your TA will have to moderate discussions if students present or ask questions during a session. Dial-in phone numbers are available for sessions when host or student has trouble with audio/mic or internet connection. iPads : Application sharing is not currently supported on mobile devices (including iPads) or for screen readers in Blackboard Collaborate. If you are using a mobile device or screen reader, you can share files and a blank whiteboard with your attendees. Frequently Asked Questions Should I schedule a Session or use the Course Room? Course Room Scheduling a Session How long does it take for a Blackboard Collaborate recording to publish? Alternatives WebEx Zoom Google Hangouts Follow this link for the UIC Blackboard Collaborate page . Access to Piazza , an interactive-classroom tool, changed significantly as of August 1, 2021. As part of this change, premium features such as polls, statistics, and class locking capabilities are only available with a paid instructor or department license. UIC reviewed Piazza’s new terms of service and pricing models as well as alternative technologies and feedback from faculty, and decided to not offer Piazza as a centrally managed tool for university-wide use. UIC instructors can still use the free version of piazza.com in classes with fewer than 25 students with technical support provided by Piazza, and the Piazza integration with Blackboard will continue to work. Please see the Piazza support page for more information on the license model. Faculty who are looking for alternatives to Piazza, especially for classes with more than 25 students, are encouraged to visit the CATE website During this unexpected time of remote learning, Technology Solutions recommends that faculty use alternative assessment methods that avoid the need for secure proctored exams. For tips on online testing and assessment alternatives, see this short Remote Assessments and Examinations tutorial . If you must deliver an online exam and need a method to ensure academic integrity, UIC is offering faculty access through May 31, 2020, to two online proctoring tools: Respondus LockDown Browser Respondus Monitor . Respondus is available only for exams conducted via Blackboard. Access it from the Tools menu in all Blackboard courses. If you choose to use Respondus, please remember that students may be dealing with varied technology access and setups at home. We encourage you to be flexible to accommodate their remote arrangements. Contact LTS@uic.edu Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Resources for meetings, advising, office hours, and even teaching online. Learn more … Get started Sign in https://uichicago.webex.com Share Start Start a Meeting Start a Meeting Schedule this video . Instructions and Videos Notes Start a meeting instantly, without scheduling: Just share your WebEx Personal Room URL. Lock Automatic Lock Lobby Frequently Asked Questions If anyone can join my room, is it private or not? What is a Room Lock? here . Why schedule a meeting? Why schedule a meeting and not just start one? Door open Room Lock Door closed Automatic Lock , you will see them waiting in the Lobby Alternatives WebEx Teams Find the UIC WebEx page here . Get started Sign in https://uic.zoom.us . You can then host or join a meeting. Instructions and Videos New Zoom recording settings (as of August 24, 2020) Cloud recording downloads: Access to cloud recordings: Recording disclaimer: Auto-deletion of cloud recordings after 180 days: answers.uillinois.edu/uic/105062 . Please visit answers.uillinois.edu/uic/75122 consult@uic.edu Notes When using the desktop app, always select Sign in with SSO . The company domain should read uic.zoom.us . This way, you can log in with your UIC NetID and password. Find the Zoom use case disclaimer here . Here is the UIC Zoom page . Get started Sign in http://teams.uic.edu Instructions and Videos Find the UIC Microsoft Teams page here . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Does your teaching and/or research require: big data analytics clusters collaborative research data storage high-performance computing clusters high-performance networking secure research environments If so, check out ACER (Advanced Cyberinfrastructure for Education and Research). This group provides both physical resources and consulting services for UIC faculty. Learn more at acer.uic.edu . Good audio : Having good audio is crucial to minimize breaks in your voice. Use a microphone headset or any microphone/headphone combination you already have, including AirPods. Laptops often have the microphone close to the speakers, creating a loop that will cause breaks in sound for the listener. Another pathway to fixing this when you lecture is to lower your speaker volume, be in a quiet room, and stay close to the laptop mic. Dial-in numbers Turn off video camera : The only time you should use a camera is to say hi! The rest of the time should be audio and screen share. Mute everyone else Share your screen : Don’t forget to share your entire screen instead of individual applications. This makes it easier to swap between windows when you teach with multiple media. Do you need equipment from the university to teach your online class? Are you receiving questions from your students who need assistance with laptops, internet hot spots, or other items?** If either of the above is applicable, visit this Technology Solutions page for more information . **Note: LTS@uic.edu Where do I store all of my virtual stuff? Where do I put course-related materials so that my students can access them? Or so that they can’t? If these are questions you have been asking, visit UIC’s cloud-based storage info page . There you can learn about options such as Box, OneDrive, Google Drive, and Adobe Creative Cloud enterprise storage. A few steps to help protect yourself from online threats … Accounts and passwords security@uic.edu Email spoofing almost Don’t reply! Check for inconsistencies such as the email address, the signature, and context. Always look at the actual email address—not the displayed name—to confirm who sent the email. You may have to expand the “sent from” field to even see this. This can be difficult Be careful when drafting a fresh email to the real person. If you replied to the spoofed email, your email software might grab the spoofed address and save it to your address book. Be sure to delete it. Learn more about email spoofing: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_spoofing . Additional recommended Technology Solutions links for online safety: Technology Solutions security site Email scam attacks Email and phone scams Email spoofing Gift card email scam Password management Suspicious or threatening emails To use the UIC library, everyone (including faculty!) must complete the following items: Seat reservation: go.library.uic.edu/seats UIC health check: go.uic.edu/dailypass All library assistance is being provided virtually at this time. You can: Chat with a librarian. Reference help: Fill out the reference request form here . Library subject experts: Make an appointment to speak with one here . MATLAB for Students : Virtual application that runs on the Citrix server. Easy on students’ computer resources. MATLAB for Faculty : Powerful version. Downloads and runs on faculty computer. Internet required to connect to license server. MATLAB for Faculty and Students U of I Webstore . With campus labs closed, do your students need to access specialized software such as Mathematica, R Studio, Adobe Acrobat, and SPSS? UIC students can use these programs from home via UIC’s Virtual Computer Lab. Learn more here . Find out about Webinars and workshops available from UIC Technology Solutions. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link COVID-19: Official UIC resource page About Back to main content Dean Faculty Distinguished Professors Book Dedications Faculty Development Faculty Honors Faculty Meetings Teaching Resources Research Resources Administration Graduate Research Staff Advisory Board Alumni Diversity Facilities Engineering Innovation Building MakerSpace Summer Camp News RISE Contact Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>