<DOCNO>1289</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/covid-19-university-travel-guidance</URL>
<TEXT>COVID-19 University Travel Guidance | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory COVID-19 University Travel Guidance Currently, travel is not restricted due to COVID-19. Travelers are advised to review UIC travel guidelines . Please make note of any testing requirements upon your return from traveling. Information about on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing is available here . As of Monday, December 5, 2022 the University COVID-19 Pre-travel Unit/department Head Approval Form will no longer be required for travel, T-Card reconciling, or reimbursement. According to standard university practice , the university requires faculty, staff and students traveling for essential university business to obtain prior approval from their unit head. All members of our UIC community are encouraged to comprehensively assess the risks the International Travel Safety website . Should travelers be asked to make a commitment to an event or speaking engagement that requires travel months in the future, individuals are advised to request unit head approval and if approved, to accept the invitation with the understanding that travel guidance for the destination may be impacted by COVID-19 travel restrictions. Please note that this travel policy is subject to change based upon any continued developments in federal, state or local guidance (Updated: 12/2/22). Review Travel Guidance and Considerations Additional Research Travel Considerations When traveling with any research-related data or materials, refer to The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research (OVCR) guidance on international travel update the University Conflict of Interest disclosures Additional International Travel Considerations UIC’s International Travel Safety Policy University Sponsored International Travel Please note that the International Travel Safety Policy remains in effect. This policy requires all student, staff and faculty traveling internationally with UIC-authorization to enroll their travel using the International Travel Safety website . All UIC students who travel abroad must enroll in a UIC travel roster and obtain the University of Illinois System’s comprehensive insurance plan or equivalent insurance approved by the UIC Study Abroad Office. All faculty and staff who travel abroad on UIC-authorized business are also required to enroll in the portal and will automatically receive the comprehensive insurance. For more information about International Travel Safety visit the travel safety enrollment page . UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>