<DOCNO>1398</DOCNO>
<URL>https://library.uic.edu/help-articles/searching</URL>
<TEXT>Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation Help Collections Libraries About Services UIC.edu Campus Map Contact Us My Accounts Give to the Library UIC Library Search UIC University Library Help Center Warning: Toggle menu visibility Ask Another Question Browse: All Topics 9 Borrowing 13 Computers, Printing & Scanning 9 Electronic Resources 4 Off-Campus Access 12 On-Campus 14 Requesting Materials 22 Research Help 13 Special Collections & University Archives 6 Study Spaces 4 Teaching & Learning 9 Writing, Style & Citations Topics Borrowing Computers, Printing & Scanning Electronic Resources Off-Campus Access On-Campus Requesting Materials Research Help Special Collections & University Archives Study Spaces Teaching & Learning Writing, Style & Citations Question UIC Library Search Answer You can search for articles, books, and more from the Library homepage and the magnifying glass icon on the top right of every page. Note that UIC Library Search doesn't search the Library's actual website (library.uic.edu).  For Events, News and website Pages, you can search the UIC Library website directly . Start your search Enter your search terms on the homepage. On the results page, you'll see filters in the left column. Some of the most useful include: Availability Resource Type Creation Date Example: To find e-books, filter by Availability: Resource Type: Sign-in is only needed to pin favorites or request print books for pick-up. For articles that are not online, follow the Access Options link and select Request via Interlibrary Loan ILLiad . (The "Sign in" option applies only to print books.) What is this searching? UIC Library Search UIC Library Collections Subject & Course Guides Databases A-Z List Journals & e-Journals What is this not searching? Some important UIC Library resources are not (yet?) in UIC Library Search, and must be searched directly: Library website results Special Collections & University Archives finding aids Digital Images ...and others.  Please contact us Advanced Search On the Library homepage, below the primary search box, you can find Advanced Search , providing additional features to help you narrow search results by format, location, and other options. Advanced Search uses the same database as the basic homepage search. Metadata updated: Aug 01, 2021 views: 3700 Toggle action bar FAQ Actions Was this helpful? Yes 4 No 0 Help Center generic call to action Need more help? Contact a Librarian! Powered by Springshare ; All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. Login to LibApps Locations Richard J. Daley Library Library of the Health Sciences-Chicago Library of the Health Sciences-Peoria Crawford Library of the Health Sciences-Rockford Library of the Health Sciences-Urbana More Resources My Accounts Accessibility Services Visitor Services Faculty Services Alumni Services Contact Us © 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>