<DOCNO>1418</DOCNO>
<URL>https://library.uic.edu/news-stories/uic-library-digital-collections-beta-release-available</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago University Library Main Menu Expand Help menu Expand Collections menu Expand Libraries menu Expand About menu Expand Services menu Eyebrow menu Hours Contact Us My Accounts Give to the Library UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search UIC Library Digital Collections Beta Release Available Posted on December 07, 2022 Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this via email The new UIC Library Digital Collections beta site is now available to the entire UIC community and to the general public from the Digital Collections page What the New Platform Offers Users can search across all digital collections at once in the new UIC Library Digital Collections. Users can also browse our collections, explore highlight pages that draw attention to our collection strengths and new materials and navigate materials via maps and timelines. The new platform also allows users with a UIC netid to access materials that have copyright or other restrictions. New Content in UIC Library Digital Collections A new highlight has been added to the home page for “ New in UIC Library Digital Collections .” This page lists new collections as they are released. Collections added in the last two months are: - A Century of Progress Memorabilia Collection Beverly Area Planning Association Records College of Physicians and Surgeons of Chicago – Class Photos University of Illinois College of Medicine Graduating Class Composite Photographs Hull-House Association records We will keep the “New collections” page updated and announce separately when especially significant new collections have been added. What’s Next UIC Library Digital Collections will remain in “beta” release until all materials from our old CONTENTdm collections are available in the new site. More information will follow as we approach the official production release. Your Feedback is Important to Us Please use the "Contact Us" link at the top of any page of the UIC Library Digital Collections beta site to let us know about any issues you encounter or to suggest ideas for improvements. Modified on December 07, 2022 Library Locations Richard J. Daley Library Library of the Health Sciences-Chicago Library of the Health Sciences-Peoria Crawford Library of the Health Sciences-Rockford UIC School of Law Library Footer Menu Library Home My Accounts Accessibility Services Visitor Services Faculty Services Alumni Services Admin login Library Hours Contact Us Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Richard J. Daley Library, 801 S. Morgan, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-2716 lib-help@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Chat with a Librarian Close</TEXT>