<DOCNO>1420</DOCNO>
<URL>https://library.uic.edu/news-stories/congratulations-to-the-2022-library-research-award-winners</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago University Library Main Menu Expand Help menu Expand Collections menu Expand Libraries menu Expand About menu Expand Services menu Eyebrow menu Hours Contact Us My Accounts Give to the Library UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Congratulations to the 2022 Library Research Award Winners Posted on October 11, 2022 Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this via email The UIC Library English 161 Research Awards, initiated in the fall of 2020, recognize excellence in student research that demonstrates best practices in finding, evaluating and synthesizing sources to develop creative and impactful work. Students also reflect on their research and writing process in the form of a short essay, which is judged in conjunction with the research paper. The entries from English 161 classes from Spring 2022 English 161 were outstanding! After much deliberation, we are pleased to announce the following awards based on both the research paper and process essays: First Place: Christopher Paramby , sophomore, integrated health studies with a concentration in behavioral health, nominated by Todd Sherfinski Christopher’s instructor Todd Sherfinski noted how “very well researched” his paper was and that it “illustrates how to complicate comparison/contrast in an interesting and meaningful way.” Second Place: Naya Kabbach , sophomore, biological sciences with a minor in psychology, nominated by Bridget English From Bridget English: “Beginning with an assessment of current treatment programs for trauma patients, this paper expertly integrates evidence to support points and presents convincing solutions to the problem.” Third Place: Phoebe Stoughton , sophomore, music performance major, nominated by Sarah Primeau During her research, Phoebe noticed that researchers studied many types of groups, but not specifically college students. Sarah Primeau noted that “Phoebe’s own original research fills that gap by reporting on the results of interviews she conducted with UIC students who participate in music ensembles.” Phoebe learned that “the key to writing a good paper is to choose a topic that excites you.” This is excellent advice for any student. Librarian judges enjoyed reading each submission, and all students who submitted applications should be proud of their work. Congratulations to them all! Library Locations Richard J. Daley Library Library of the Health Sciences-Chicago Library of the Health Sciences-Peoria Crawford Library of the Health Sciences-Rockford UIC School of Law Library Footer Menu Library Home My Accounts Accessibility Services Visitor Services Faculty Services Alumni Services Admin login Library Hours Contact Us Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Richard J. Daley Library, 801 S. Morgan, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-2716 lib-help@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Chat with a Librarian Close</TEXT>