<DOCNO>1446</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/international-visitors-form</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Hosting International Visitors Form Connecting you with helpful, supportive resources Is your unit hosting an international visitor (or visitors)? The Office of Global Engagement (OGE) can assist with immigration matters (as needed), itineraries, agenda, and protocols. Complete and submit the brief online submission form below at least four weeks before the arrival of your visitor(s) to ensure your request can be accommodated. After OGE determines the support that might be necessary or helpful, a member of our staff will follow up with you. Even though OGE may not be able to accommodate all aspects of a request submitted less than four weeks in advance, we still encourage you to complete the form. Has your unit recently hosted an international visitor? Let us know by completing the past international visitors form . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UI Health Logo UI Health at UIC Graduate icon UIC at a Glance People Icon Diversity at UIC Document icon UIC Strategic Priorities Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Name of UIC hosting unit College of Applied Health Science College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts College of Business Administration College of Dentistry College of Education College of Engineering College of Liberal Arts and Sciences College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs Graduate College Honors College Jane Addams College of Social Work School of Law School of Public Health Other Other unit About the UIC host/organizer Name of official host First Last Host email Host phone number Who is the organizer of the visit? The host Someone else Name of organizer First Last Organizer email Organizer phone number About the visitor(s) Number of visitors Names and titles of all visitors Will any of the visitors require visa processing or support from UIC? Yes No University or institutional affiliation of the visitor(s) Website of university or institution Arrival date Date Format: MM slash DD slash YYYY Departure date Date Format: MM slash DD slash YYYY Upload any supporting materials such as resumes of visitors or email correspondence describing the visit Drop files here or Files exceeding 2MB in size should be emailed to oge@uic.edu Goals of the visit What are your unit's goals for the visit? What are the goals of the visitor(s) for this visit to UIC? Other helpful information What other information might help us best support the visitor(s) during their stay at UIC? University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>