<DOCNO>1449</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/fulbright-programs</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Fulbright Programs Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Established in 1946 under legislation introduced by late Senator J. William Fulbright , the Fulbright Program is the flagship international educational exchange program sponsored by the U.S. government. The program is under the United States Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) , and is designed to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries. Fulbright celebrated its 75th anniversary Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Fulbright Programs are competitive and require significant advanced planning to prepare an application. Explore the relevant program(s) below. Fulbright Scholar Program FAQs about the Scholar Program Fulbright U.S. Student Program and Fulbright UK Summer Institute Fulbright U.S. Student Program for Graduate Students Fulbright Canada See a list of past UIC Fulbright Scholar grantees Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Shawn Conner-Rondot, Director of International Affairs and Outreach 601 S. Morgan St., 516 UH, MC 227, Chicago, Illinois 60607 Email: sdconron@uic.edu Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Fulbright Foreign Students Program Around 4,000 graduate students, young professionals and artists from abroad receive Fulbright scholarships to study and conduct research in the United States. The program is administered by binational Fulbright Commissions/Foundations or U.S. Embassies. All Foreign Student Program applications are processed by these offices. Learn more about the Fulbright Foreign Students Program Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence Program The Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence (S-I-R) Program is designed to enhance internationalization efforts on U.S. university campuses. You would host an international scholar for a semester or academic year to teach courses, assist in curriculum development, guest lecture, develop study abroad or exchange partnerships, and engage with the campus and the local community. S-I-Rs work across departments and curricula in a variety of ways to widely enhance or expand an existing international program, develop new world area studies programs, add an international dimension to existing coursework or provide an opportunity for U.S. students to learn about a particular world region or country. Learn more about the S-I-R Program Fulbright Visiting Scholar Program UIC academic units may be contacted by scholars from foreign institutions of higher education who are interested in visiting UIC under the Fulbright Visiting Scholar Program. Each year, Fulbright awards grants for advanced research and teaching in the United States to approximately 850 scholars from around the world. Scholars who meet the eligibility requirements apply for grants through the Fulbright commission/foundation or public affairs section of the U.S. embassy in their home countries. Learn more about the Visiting Scholar Program Information about the above programs was adapted from the Fulbright Scholar Program and Fulbright Foreign Student Program websites. All questions about these programs should be directed to the Fulbright Scholar team Fulbright Student Program team Past Fulbright Visiting Scholars hosted by UIC University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>