<DOCNO>1453</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/news-stories/uic-and-spa-delhi-join-hands-to-promote-better-city-design-worldwide</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search UIC and SPA Delhi Join Hands to Promote Better City Design Worldwide College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs | Posted on October 18, 2022 Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this via email Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link India’s leading School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) Delhi and the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) signed a Memo of Agreement (MOA) on October 18, 2022. Leveraging matchless resources, including geographical locations at the heart of two great cities, the MOA positions these two exceptional public institutions to advance joint research and scholarly collaborations around some of the most pressing issues of an increasingly urbanized world. Funded by the central government of India, SPA is recognized as an ‘institution of national importance’ by the country’s parliament. SPA offers undergraduate programs in planning and architecture and more than 12 graduate programs. UIC’s College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs (CUPPA), ranked fifth in the nation for its urban policy program by US News & World Report (2023), promotes just, resilient, and livable communities. CUPPA conducts engaged and applied research advancing the larger public good via diverse fields like urban planning, public policy, and city design. Professors Sanjeev Vidyarthi, director of the City Design program in CUPPA, and Ashok Kumar, dean of academic affairs at SPA, are longtime collaborators. India’s recently launched National Education Policy encourages international exchange of ideas and knowledge, an idea that UIC takes seriously, Vidyarthi said. “The MOA will pave the way for our two-leading urban-centered research institutions specializing in city planning and design to work together in the face of an uncertain urban future worldwide starting with issues facing our two great cities and then moving on to future projects.” The Republic of India is world’s most populous democracy, home to over 1.3 billion people, with an estimated GDP of $3 trillion, the fifth highest in the world. India ranks second for international students pursuing higher education in the U.S., with more than 167,582 Indian students enrolling during the 2020-21 academic year. UIC has well-established, long-term scholarly ties with India and currently enrolls nearly 1700 students from the country. Located in the heart of one of the world’s great cities, the University of Illinois Chicago is Chicago’s largest university and only public research institution. Its 16 academic colleges serve nearly 34,000 undergraduate, graduate and professional students. UIC is recognized as one of the most ethnically rich and culturally diverse campuses in the nation, a leader in providing access to underrepresented students. Around 80% of undergraduates receive financial assistance. With one of the largest colleges of medicine in the nation, and colleges of dentistry, pharmacy, public health, nursing, social work, and applied health sciences, UIC is the state’s principal educator of health professionals and a major healthcare provider to underserved communities. UIC students become professionals in fields ranging from business and engineering to education, liberal arts and sciences, urban planning, law and social work, as well as architecture, design and the arts. UIC is an integral part of the educational, technological and cultural fabric of one of the world’s greatest cities. Modified on October 18, 2022 University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>