<DOCNO>1492</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/contact/communicating-on-campus/sending-announcements-dddh</URL>
<TEXT>Sending Announcements / DDDH | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Sending Announcements / DDDH There are multiple campus-wide options for publishing events or news at UIC. The launch of UIC Today allows the campus to move away from sending numerous emails, including daily massmail and Official announcements. Effective Sept. 18, 2017, massmail messages appear online at UIC today and are no longer be sent by email. DDDH messages continue to be sent by email. Official communications are sent from administrative offices such as the University President, Chancellor, Provost or other Vice Chancellors and may be sent by email or posted on UIC today. To submit an Announcement, Official or DDDH message, use the request form below. The UIC Calendar of Events daily digest to subscribers . Announcement/Official/DDDH request form Announcements Announcements can be submitted by any UIC e-mail user for a fee of $125. They are restricted to events on campus or sponsored by campus units such as a lecture, workshop, civic event, campus initiative, award or research. Announcements are subject to the following guidelines: All announcements, whether from campus units or registered student organizations, must comply with University Policy for Publishing on the Internet ; with the federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 ; and with the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act Notices seeking volunteers for research studies must comply with federal guidelines and IRB-approved protocols for participant recruitment and are the sole responsibility of the investigator. Please submit announcement requests by noon one-and-a-half business days prior to the desired delivery date. Due to heavy volume, please do not submit more than three days prior to desired date of receipt. Messages must be submitted using the online form. HTML announcements will not be accepted. If promoting a website, be sure to include the entire web address, including the http:// If your message links to a PDF file, the PDF should be created in an accessible manner and be noted as an accessible PDF file. Accessible PDF files allow people with disabilities to access the file information with their assistive technology. For information and training on creating accessible PDF files, please refer to Resources For Making Non-HTML Content More Accessible Information Technology @ UIC Fees: $125 for each Announcement posted on UIC today Payment forms accepted: DDDH Administration-related email messages can be sent to Deans, Directors, and Department heads (DDDH) for $35. These messages are sent in an HTML template with a special DDDH masthead. They will not be posted on UIC today. DDDH List Request to be added to or deleted from the DDDH distribution list. Please indicate if you are requesting to join the list or leave it. * Add me to the list Remove me from the list Name * First Last Email * Job Title * Department * Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Other publicity options are described on the Communicating on Campus UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>