<DOCNO>1561</DOCNO>
<URL>http://police.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago University Police Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Services menu Expand Resources menu Expand Crime Data menu Expand Reform menu Eyebrow menu Administrative Services UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Welcome and thank you for visiting the University of Illinois at Chicago Police Department’s website. Our goal is to have a website that is easy to navigate as well as being educational and informative to all visitors. On this website you will find a multitude of information regarding our history, department units, community initiatives, hiring opportunities, helpful tips and so much more. You can learn about the range of services that we offer to help enhance and make the UIC campus and surrounding community safer. UICPD is committed to safety and security in order to create the most enriching academic environment and quality of life for all UIC students, faculty, staff, and visitors. The UIC Police Department is proud of its history and everyone that our department serves.  We hope that you find our site useful and resourceful. Thank you for visiting our website and please continue to check back often. Kevin Booker – Chief of Police University of Illinois Chicago Locations Springfield Urbana-Champaign Regional Campuses Related Links Office of the Vice Chancellor of Administrative Services Office of Preparedness and Response Housing Office of Access and Equity Campus Advocacy Network Dean of Students Transportation Services Parking Social Media Accounts Contact 943 West Maxwell Street, MC 268, Chicago, IL 60608-1563 Phone: Emergency:  (312) 355-5555 | General: (312) 996-2830 uicpd@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>