<DOCNO>1608</DOCNO>
<URL>https://teaching.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence Main Menu Expand RESOURCES menu Expand EDTECH menu Expand PROGRAMS menu Expand CONNECT menu Expand SPOTLIGHT menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Provost's Office Office of Faculty Affairs Office of Diversity CIRTL Newsletter Subscribe UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Check icon Teaching Guides Document icon Syllabus Toolkit Heart Icon Course Modalities Envelope icon Subscribe to CATE Newsletter Campus COVID Updates Extended Support Hours 12/10 and 12/11 Teaching Tidbits Join us for a CATE workshop 2022 Brochure Learn about CATE programs and resources by the numbers Learn about CATE's priorities and impact Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link SPOTLIGHT ON TRP AWARD RECIPIENTS Short videos featuring recipients of a UIC Teaching Recognition Program Award sharing their teaching philosophies. Inspiring glimpses into teaching excellence. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link I encourage students to question dominant narratives and societal norms while fostering a learning culture that also respects and celebrates differences. Through encouragement, I seek to develop a learner's confidence and decisiveness, while at the same time normalizing the fact that we as clinicians do not always have the answer. My teaching philosophy is informed by critical disability pedagogies, which views disability as a key source of knowledge and experience rather than a problem to be accommodated or solved. I design class time around active learning, discussions, Q&A, group work, case competitions, jeopardy ... basically less lecture and more doing. My philosophy requires me to engage students with my full, authentic self so that I can affirm who they are and draw their whole self into nursing and guide their transformation into committed, caring health care workers . I believe that students learn best when they can be actively involved in their own learning process. I believe the key to successful college teaching is the careful choreography of each class. Each class offers a new opportunity to form a community around the art or skill of interpreting a text. Education is life. I believe that meaningful teaching and learning transcend facts and information. Listen to inspiring words from some of the 2021-2022 Teaching Recognition Program awardees. Vignettes Improving Online Learning Experiences Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Dec 15 2022 PEER-Chicago 2022 Jan 5 2023 Creating an Inclusive Syllabus Jan 6 2023 Blackboard at UIC: Key Features for Teaching Assistants Jan 25 2023 Inclusive Education Certificate Program - Online Course & Learning Community University of Illinois Chicago Contact Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence (CATE) teaching@uic.edu Social Media Accounts UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>