<DOCNO>1632</DOCNO>
<URL>http://marketing.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Marketing and Brand Management Main Menu Expand Marketing Toolbox menu Expand Other Resources menu Expand UIC Licensing Program menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search The Office of Marketing and Brand Management serves the University of Illinois Chicago by providing resources and guidance to help ensure that the institution’s marketing and communications initiatives are aligned with the university’s brand and identity. Maintaining consistency in messaging and design across the university reinforces the UIC brand overall. All communications from the University of Illinois Chicago, whether originating from a college or an individual program, are reflections of the institution. The logos, typefaces, colors, and treatment of photos and text all project attributes of UIC. The Office of Marketing and Brand Management is housed within the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications . If you’re a media outlet and need to speak with a university representative, visit the Public Affairs contact page . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Institutional Marketing Marketing and Brand Management develops and executes strategic marketing campaigns designed to strengthen the university’s reputation and identity as a leading academic and research institution. Sustaining a strong brand image for the university is critical in promoting awareness, understanding and support among students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, opinion leaders, and the broader public. Marketing Support to Units In addition to marketing UIC at an institutional level, the Office of Marketing and Brand Management is available to provide integrated marketing communications support to the university’s schools, colleges and programs. The staff focuses its efforts on projects that align with UIC’s strategic priorities. The office works with units to define goals, objectives, strategies and tactics to help ensure that marketing communications projects are successful and cost-effective. University of Illinois Chicago UIC Offices Office of the UIC Chancellor UI System UI Alumni Association IGNITE: The campaign for UIC Strategic Marketing and Communications Sites UIC Today Brand Resources RED WordPress multisite Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications Disability Resources Emergency Information Privacy Policy Contact Us Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Tumblr Contact Office of Marketing and Brand Management 601 S. Morgan St., 1330 UH, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3456 marketing@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>