<DOCNO>1727</DOCNO>
<URL>https://vcha.uic.edu/about/vcha-initiatives/covid-19-university-travel-request-authorization-form</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Priorities menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UI Health UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs About VCHA Initiatives COVID-19 University Travel Guidance COVID-19 University Travel Guidance Currently, travel is not restricted due to COVID-19. Travelers are advised to review UIC travel guidelines . Please make note of any testing requirements upon your return from traveling. Information about on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing is available here . As of Monday, December 5, 2022 the University COVID-19 Pre-travel Unit/department Head Approval Form will no longer be required for travel, T-Card reconciling or reimbursement . According to standard university practice , the university requires faculty, staff and students traveling for essential university business to obtain prior approval from their unit head. All members of our UIC community are encouraged to comprehensively assess the risks the International Travel Safety website . Should travelers be asked to make a commitment to an event or speaking engagement that requires travel months in the future, individuals are advised to request unit head approval and if approved, to accept the invitation with the understanding that travel guidance for the destination may be impacted by COVID-19 travel restrictions. Please review the information provided on the UIC COVID-19 Resource page (Updated: 12/2/22) About Back to main content Leadership Health Affairs Policies University of Illinois Chicago UI Health Contact Medical Center Administration (MCA), 914 S. Wood St., Chicago, IL 60612 Phone: (312) 413-5473 vcha@uic.edu Social Media Accounts UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>