<DOCNO>1769</DOCNO>
<URL>https://catalog.uic.edu/ucat</URL>
<TEXT>2021–2023 Undergraduate Catalog < University of Illinois at Chicago Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home UIC Home Toggle menu Undergraduate Graduate Print / Download Options Search Catalog Academic Catalog 2021-2023 Undergraduate Catalog Catalog Navigation Down arrow icon Undergraduate Catalog Academic Calendar The University Admissions, Registration &​ Finances Degree Programs and Requirements Colleges &​ Departments Undergraduate Course Descriptions Archive &​ Links Graduate Catalog All Course Descriptions Home / Undergraduate Catalog 2021–2023 Undergraduate Catalog How to Use the Online Catalog The online catalog is a record of the 2021–2023 academic years. It is for informational purposes only and does not constitute a contract. The information was current at the time of publication. Faculty assignments and programs listed are subject to change, and individual departments and units should be consulted for further information. Courses listed in this publication are subject to revision without advance notice. Courses are not necessarily offered each term or each year. Individual departments or units should be consulted for information regarding regularity of course offerings. The catalog is online at http://catalog.uic.edu . Volume 45, May 15, 2021 Office of the Registrar (MC 003) The online catalog includes a comprehensive list of Degree Programs and Minors The online catalog is updated regularly as degree programs, courses, and requirements change. A list of program and requirement changes is located on the Program Changes and Updates page . The archived versions of the 2021–2023 Undergraduate Catalog Archive and Links The online catalog is an academic planning tool for undergraduate students. The online catalog is divided into six major sections: The University Admissions, Registration, and Finances Degree Programs and Requirements Colleges and Departments Course Descriptions Archive and Links Each section of the online catalog provides information necessary for the academic planning process. A brief description of each section is provided below. The University The University Admissions, Registration, and Finances The Admissions, Registration, and Finances Degree Programs and Requirements The Degree Programs and Requirements Colleges and Departments The Colleges and Departments Course Descriptions The Course Descriptions The catalog includes all undergraduate courses at UIC. However, not all courses are offered during a given semester. To determine which courses are being offered, students should consult the Schedule of Classes my.UIC Archive and Links The Archive and Links Nondiscrimination Statement The commitment of the University of Illinois System to the most fundamental principles of academic freedom, equality of opportunity, and human dignity requires that decisions involving students and employees be based on individual merit and be free from invidious discrimination in all its forms. The University of Illinois System will not engage in discrimination or harassment against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, order of protection status, genetic information, disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation including gender identity, unfavorable discharge from the military or status as a protected veteran and will comply with all federal and state nondiscrimination, equal opportunity and affirmative action laws, orders and regulations. This nondiscrimination policy applies to admissions, employment, access to and treatment in the programs and activities of the University of Illinois System. Complaint and grievance procedures provide employees and students with the means for the resolution of complaints that allege a violation of this Statement. Members of the public should direct their inquiries or complaints to the appropriate equal opportunity office. Revised November 12, 2020 Chancellor’s Statement of Commitment to Persons with Disabilities Guided by the belief that people with disabilities are assets to the university, UIC is committed to full inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in all aspects of university life. We seek to provide an academic, social, and physical environment that makes disabled people integral to the diversity of perspectives that is vital to an academic community. UIC supports the principles of universally accessible design, alternative communication formats, and the expression of disability community and pride. At all levels of the university, UIC promotes equal opportunity, fair treatment, and the elimination of barriers for qualified individuals with disabilities. Office for Access and Equity UIC is committed to providing and preserving an educational and work environment free from all forms of sex discrimination, sexual harassment and other sexual misconduct (collectively referred to as “sexual misconduct”). UIC prohibits and will not tolerate sexual misconduct of or by students, employees, patients, applicants for enrollment or employment, or others in its education programs or activities. Please visit the UIC Sexual M isconduct website s , and how to report an incident. To report sexual misconduct to the university or f or additional information or assistance with the equal opportunity, affirmative action, and harassment policies and procedures of the University of Illinois Chicago, please contact: Office for Access and Equity titleix@uic.edu oaeada@uic.edu http://oae.uic.edu To make a complaint to the U.S. Department of Education, contact: U.S. Department of Education ocr.chicago@ed.gov Public Formal Grievance Procedures University of Illinois Chicago I. Introduction These procedures have been implemented to address complaints of discrimination on the basis of age and/or disability in any activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration that is related to the operation of university’s programs. II. Eligibility These procedures may be used by any member of the public who alleges age (Under the Age Discrimination Act) or disability (Under Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act) discrimination on the basis of class. However, anyone who wishes to challenge a decision made about them by an agent of the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) in the course of their employment or enrollment at UIC must utilize the UIC Academic Grievance Procedures. III. Definitions A. B. Grievant: C. Grievance Officer: Office for Access and Equity (MC 602) http://oae.uic.edu D. Appeals Officer: E. Days: F. Record: IV. Grievance Process Filing of the Grievance: Investigation: Appeal: Deviation from the Process: Effective date of policy is September 1, 2005. University of Illinois at Chicago Apply Online Contact Admissions Privacy Statement Contact the Webmaster . Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Download PDF of the entire Undergraduate Catalog All pages in the campus catalog. Cancel</TEXT>