<DOCNO>1790</DOCNO>
<URL>http://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/uics-polithinkers-claim-victory-at-builtworlds-hackathon</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering UIC’s PoliThinkers claim victory at BuiltWorlds Hackathon Posted on November 01, 2018 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Combine a serious intellectual challenge, creative thinking, and interdisciplinary teamwork from students representing three of UIC Engineering’s six departments. Heat for 36 hours, and judge with a careful, critical eye. What do you get? A big UIC win in the BuiltWorlds hackathon, a day-and-a-half-long competition where teams are asked to solve problems related to the built world around us: buildings, infrastructure, and beyond. Congratulations to our winners! They are: Giovanni Agugini Bassi , Iacopo Olivo , and Francesco Pinci Andrea Ciccardi Michele Giovanni Calvi from electrical and computer engineering, and Chiara Gatti Team members cite the statistic that 25 percent of workplace deaths occur in the construction environment, deeming this a “paramount issue” for workers, construction companies, and society as a whole. The team’s solution is an interactive system of wearable devices for workers at building sites. The devices are capable of detecting unsafe situations, preventing injuries by making the wearer more aware of his or her surroundings, and lowering the response time in case harm befalls anyone. The device issues immediate warning signals or messages to its user, to other workers, and to site supervisors. Winning the BuiltWorlds Hackathon demands more than just a great idea. Teams, which include students and professionals alike, also must identify a market for their product and conduct a competitive analysis of similar companies or products. Teams are judged on their creativity, the match between their proposed product and market need, their level of personal growth and development during the hackathon experience, and their final presentation. PoliThinkers’ members described the competition as intense, especially “due to the fact that our team has no background in the construction industry.” But, they noted, “it gave us the opportunity to learn from a different field from ours.” Modified on December 06, 2018 Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>