<DOCNO>1847</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/profiles/barbara-di-eugenio</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Barbara  Di Eugenio Professor, Director of Graduate Studies Department of Computer Science Contact Building & Room: 1138 SEO Address: 851 S. Morgan St, MC 152, Chicago, IL, 60607 Office Phone: (312) 996-7566 Email: bdieugen@uic.edu Related Sites: View full profile NLP Lab About I am a Professor in the department of Computer Science University of Illinois at Chicago I come from Torino (Turin) , in northwestern Italy, home of the Mole Antonelliana, the Shroud of Turin, and the Winter Olympics 2006. The correct spelling of my last name is "Di Eugenio", as two separate words Research: My main area of research is Natural Language Processing (NLP), and its application to human-computer interaction, educational technology, health care, human-robot interaction, and multimedia systems. My goal is to use NLP to support both education and instruction, and collaboration between human or artificial agents. The theoretical aspects of my research concern the linguistic analysis, and the knowledge representation and reasoning that support the understanding and generation of NL discourse and dialogue. All my research has its empirical foundations in both qualitative and quantitative corpus analysis, including data mining techniques. Personal: I enjoy a bit of everything, including exploring Chicago, movies, music (opera, classical, jazz), hiking, travelling, and spending time with my husband and two kids (18 and 15 years old). Publication Aggregators Find Publications at NLP Lab Website Notable Honors 2018, University Scholar 2018-2021, UIC 2013, Innovator of the Year Award, AWIS (Association for Women in Science) Chicago Chapter 2011, Invited Speaker, Constraints in Discourse 2002, CAREER award, NSF Education Ph.D., Computer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania (1993) Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>