<DOCNO>1923</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/jason-polakis-receives-nsf-career-award</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Jason Polakis receives NSF CAREER award Andrea Poet | Posted on July 19, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Each website you access or application you download is another opportunity for your privacy to be undermined. Jason Polakis , an assistant professor of computer science, is designing and developing new ways to analyze a web browser’s capabilities and discover how they can be misused to track or re-identify users. Polakis received a National Science Foundation CAREER award in support of this research, the National Science Foundations’s top award for early-career researchers. “In recent years we have become increasingly reliant on the Internet for conducting many of our everyday tasks, and our online presence encompasses both our personal and professional lives,” Polakis said. “As a result, in such a digital society, ensuring the privacy of online activities and limiting the exposure of sensitive or private data is of paramount importance.” Polakis is working to understand both the security limitations of web browsers and the privacy threats faced by users. He is designing countermeasures to combat these security threats, as well as developing other privacy-preserving measures. “Web browsers constitute the application platforms that mediate the majority of our online activities. Due to browsers’ critical positioning within the web ecosystem, flaws that enable privacy-invasive behaviors can have severe ramifications,” Polakis said. “As the same time, their inherent complexity in terms of capabilities and functionality renders the proactive detection of such flaws an extremely challenging task. This project will tackle that challenge by developing novel detection techniques and systems, as well as appropriate countermeasures for better protecting users.” The grant, “CAREER: Tracking on the Modern Web: Novel Attacks, Measurements, and Defenses,” is $500,000, and runs for five years. Modified on July 26, 2022 Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>