<DOCNO>1978</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/the-remarkable-versatility-of-computer-science</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering The remarkable versatility of computer science by Andrea Poet | Posted on July 19, 2021 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Ashma Pandya knows that a solid background in computer science will allow her to be a better biochemist and a more efficient researcher. The rising junior is a biochemistry major with a minor in computer science. Her self-styled studies include advanced topics in chemistry, biology and genetics, cell biology, physiology, and advanced mathematics, supplemented with computer science studies. She hopes to complete a PhD in biophysics after completing her undergraduate education, then work in an astrobiology lab. Her research mission is to build a prototype of the first living cell. To achieve that, Pandya will lean on the skills she is honing in her computer science minor. “As things are becoming more and more digitized, computer science is starting to play a larger role in STEM overall,” Pandya said. “I feel like I’m learning the tools I need to make my research broader in scope and faster in execution.” Pandya is one of 400 U.S. college students to receive a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation She already has put her computer skills to work. For a book chapter that correlates antibiotic resistance to bacterial evolution, she performed computational analysis on the data. She helped compile an open repository of SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors from more than 3,000 scientific papers. Pandya is working in the laboratory of Andy Nguyen, UIC professor of chemistry, using Python scripts and generating 3D models of nanocages that deliver anticancer drugs to tumors. She also served as a teaching assistant for CS112, a version of the introductory computer science course that is taught through a biological lens, under Clinical Associate Professor Patrick Troy. “The computer science minor has taught me more than just computer science,” Pandya said. Programming is like playing with Lego blocks. It’s easy to understand but demands creativity. It’s an art instead of precision engineering.” This summer, Pandya said her leisure activities include a machine learning class via Coursera, building a personal website on Github , and writing poetry. Pandya encourages everyone to learn the basics of computer science. “College is the perfect opportunity,” she said. “It can be simple, like Python. You can hire someone or learn it yourself. I encourage everyone to learn how to code.” To learn more about Pandya and her research, read this April story on UIC Today . Modified on July 20, 2021 Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>