<DOCNO>2110</DOCNO>
<URL>https://it.uic.edu/accessibility/laws-and-policies/policy-committee</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Information Technology @ UIC Main Menu Expand Services & Support menu Expand Strategy menu Expand Security menu Expand Accessibility menu Expand Resources menu Expand Community menu Eyebrow menu UIC Help Center Answers Service Status Student Tech Guide (NEW!) UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Information Technology @ UIC Accessibility Laws and Policies Accessibility Policy Committee Accessibility Policy Committee Goals, Responsibilities, and Members Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link U of I box folder contains meeting materials, policy examples and other supplemental files. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The UIC Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Accessibility Policy Committee is charged with providing guiding principles for EIT accessibility compliance to help UIC enhance its own policy and procedures. The policy needs to be flexible enough to allow each department, unit, or office to develop procedures that fit their needs. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Help Finalize ICT Accessibility Policy Advise units on policy implementation and resources. Collaborate and partner with relevant stakeholders to review and finalize the draft policy. Provide Strategic Direction Foster communication on providing necessary accessibility training and education to faculty, staff, and students. Plan and measure a coordinated accessibility strategy for departments and central units for prioritization. Assist departments and units to create a 3-year accessibility plan. Create a review process for each department and unit’s 3-year accessibility plan. Review and finalize accessibility planning requirement policy. Build Compliance Structure Create a compliance structure. Set up compliance monitoring process. Build an exception process (establish criteria and create a decision tree for UIC EIT exceptions). Work on procurement, collaboration with purchasing units. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Strategy Group Madan Venkatesan, Assistant Director, Applications and Development – Administrative Services Scott Rozman, Information Technology Manager – College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Szymon Machajewski, Assistant Director – Center for the Advancement of Teaching and Excellence Cheri Canfield, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Human Resources – UIC Human Resources Dominic Belcaster, Graduate Academic Advisor – Dept of Urban Planning and Policy Kimberly Charles, Director of Digital Experience – Technology Solutions/Strategic Marketing and Communications Sophia Hamilton, Director, Disability Resource Center Claudia Diaz, Associate Director, Great Lakes ADA Center Compliance Group Michael Huggins, Executive Director, Marketing and Communications – UIC School of Law Dean Dang, Assistant Director, Enterprise Architecture and Development – Technology Solutions Michael Wesbecher, Director, Communications & Events – Health Affairs Ilir Zenku, Assistant Vice Chancellor, Health System Information Technology – Health Affairs Mark Goedert, Director of IT Strategy and Planning – Technology Solutions Aaron Rosenthal, Senior Associate Director of Contract Management – UIC Purchasing Sherri McGinnis Gonzalez, Interim Vice Chancellor and Senior Executive Director – Strategic Marketing and Communications Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Jaeun Jemma Ku, Assistant Director of Digital Accessibility, Office for Access and Equity Jason Maslanka, Chief Technology Officer, Technology Solutions Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Please contact JaEun Jemma Ku via jku@uic.edu Accessibility Back to main content Accessibility News Laws and Policies ICT Accessibility Policy Committee Training By Roles Starters Creators and Editors Developers and QA Testers By Tools Procurement IT Exception Review Events Report ADA Accessibility Barrier University of Illinois Chicago Contact Get Support Social Media Accounts UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>