<DOCNO>22</DOCNO>
<URL>https://uic.edu/about/job-opportunities</URL>
<TEXT>University of Illinois Chicago We're sorry but uic.edu doesn't work properly without JavaScript enabled. Please enable it to continue. University of Illinois Chicago Expand menu Menu Admissions & Aid Visit Campus Paying for College Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Schools Student Support Research Research Impact Research Strengths Resources & Facilities Student Research Life at UIC Living On & Around Campus Campus Resources Exploring Chicago City Transportation Essential Chicago Health Care Alumni About Visit & Directions History Leadership Public & Media Resources Job Opportunities Contact Us Acerca de la UIC (en español) University of Illinois Chicago About Visit & Directions History Leadership Public & Media Resources Job Opportunities Contact Us Acerca de la UIC (en español) Home about job-opportunities Job Opportunities Creating positive change by recruiting the doers, thinkers and makers With almost 34,000 students and more than 13,000 employees, the University of Illinois Chicago is Chicago’s largest public research university and second-largest university employer. UIC has 16 top-ranking colleges and a health sciences system that includes a hospital, clinics and seven health sciences colleges. Our mission, for our students and community, as well as for our faculty and staff, is to provide equitable access to excellence and success. UIC offers competitive salaries and benefits Diversity, access, equity Our strength is derived from our commitment to diversity and inclusion. UIC is among the most diverse campuses in the nation and our campus culture encourages the contributions and success of every individual. Equal employment opportunities are provided to all individuals regardless of their race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, marital status, physical or mental disability, parental status, housing status, source of income or military status. This is in accordance with applicable federal, state and local EEO laws. Find job openings Including academic professional, civil service, faculty, nursing, graduate assistant and postdoc research Helping students find part-time jobs and connecting employers to students Career development and job search support for students and recent alumni For employers UIC sponsors one of the largest college career fairs in the Chicago area with thousands of students and recent alumni participating. Potential employers may schedule on-campus interviews, review a database of student resumes and communicate with students. Employers may post job openings, schedule on-campus recruiting and pre-select all of their candidates for campus interviews. More links Information or prospective employees, employees, employers, and HR staff and managers Log in for access to your job-related information Information and resources for faculty careers 1200 West Harrison St. Chicago, Illinois 60607 (312) 996-7000 Tools Blackboard Google Workspace my UIC My UI Info: Pay UIC Outlook Online UIC Safe (Mobile App) Contact the webmaster Resources Academic Calendar Current Students Event Calendar Faculty and Staff Patients UIC Today Visit & Directions Clery Compliance Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX: Sexual Misconduct Student Information Disclosures Quick Links Athletics Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information International Job Opportunities Library Maps Veterans Affairs UI Health Acerca de la UIC (en español) Book a Visit Request Info Apply Now Give Alumni Association Contact Us facebook twitter instagram youtube tumblr more Cookie Settings | University of Illinois System | Urbana-Champaign | Springfield</TEXT>