<DOCNO>2310</DOCNO>
<URL>https://dos.uic.edu/student-veterans-affairs/faqs</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of the Dean of Students Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Assistance menu Expand Community Standards menu Expand Student Veterans menu Eyebrow menu Diversity Education U & I Care Student Affairs UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of the Dean of Students Student Veterans FAQs FAQs Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link All students, regardless of veteran status must contact the Office of Admissions admissions process UIC is committed to a fair and balanced review process that utilizes a multitude of factors in an effort to select the students who are best equipped to transition to and graduate in four years from UIC. Freshman Admission Freshman admission is for students under 24 credit hours and the full completion of high school courses. For further details, please click here . Transfer Admission For fullest consideration, a transfer grade point average of 2.50/4.00 on the basis of all transferable work attempted is recommended. Transcripts should illustrate a minimum of 24 semester or 36 quarter hours of transferable college classroom credit at the time of application. College and departmental requirements vary. For further details, please click here . The Office of Student Veteran Affairs handles all inquiries about educational benefits, including the G.I. Bill® (Montgomery, Post 9/11, 1606, 1607, and Vocational Rehab) and Illinois Veteran’s Grant and Illinois National Guard Grant. Should you have any questions, don’t hesitate to contact us at studentveteransaff@uic.edu. The first step would be to contact the Department of Veteran Affairs (888-442-4551) to inquire about the benefit that you qualify for. Once you are admitted to the university, submit your letter of eligibility, along with a copy of your DD-214 to the Office of Student Veteran Affairs using our online application located under the Benefits and Forms link. http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/ Toll-free: 1-888-GI-BILL1 or 1-888-442-4551 A completed file with a completed Academic Advisor form, G.I. Bill® Benefits form, letters of eligibility and DD-214 can be processed within 10 business days. Each semester, students must have their Academic Advisor form completed and signed by an academic advisor for enrollment to be reported to the VA. The VA is the last payer for tuition benefits and can take up to 4 to 6 weeks to send payment back to the university. BAH (Basic Housing Allowance) payments go directly to the student and usually arrive to a student’s account on the 1st of each month. To set up direct deposit with the VA, the student will need to contact the VA directly . UIC’s Student Veterans Association is very active with programs throughout the academic year. The Office of Student Veteran Affairs conducts activities throughout the year to help foster a positive academic experience for our student veterans and partners with with Jesse Brown VA Hospital of offer workshops and information sessions. There isn’t a different process for veteran students. Student veterans adhere to the same admissions Student Veterans Back to main content Benefits and Forms Education Benefits LAS Online Pathways Benefits for Dependents Get Connected Student Veterans of America – UIC Chapter CISAR Student Veterans Center Student Veterans Association Celebrate Veterans Week 2022 Stars & Stripes Newsletters Stars & Stripes Newsletters Archive Staff & Faculty FAQs Contact Student Veteran Affairs University of Illinois Chicago DOS Offices Career Services Student Employment Counseling Center Wellness Center For Employees SA Human Resources SA Technology GoTime Log-in The Pulse Safety UIC Police Office of Access & Equity Contact-US Giving Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact 1200 West Harrison St., 3030 SSB Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-4857 dos@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>