<DOCNO>2357</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/about/faculty/restarting-research</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs College of Engineering About Faculty Research Resources Research Resources Positive COVID-19 case? Learn what to do Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link EHSO All 3 steps below must be completed before resuming research or starting new research projects. All Principal Investigators (PIs) must register with BioRAFT , a research management tool that tracks all labs, lab members, research hazards, and safety training requirements. Sign in at https://uic.bioraft.com Follow the instructions at Safe Return to Research with BioRaft Identify your building, labs and work spaces, and contact information Indicate your group’s emergency operational status Add all research group members and identify research activities Sign in at https://uic.bioraft.com Follow the instructions at Safe Return to Research with BioRaft Go to Self Inspections Add a new Self Inspection Choose COVID-19 Lab Reopening Checklist Hit Inspect Add details under each check point and hit Save EHSO will review in few days Frequently Asked Questions Can one of my students help me complete the checklist? Group Compliance Liaison / CHO Dean and department head will provide final approval for research operations. If your labs checklist has been approved by EHSO, forward it to your department head and await further instructions. If you have not received approval from EHSO, please email labsafety@uic.edu . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Staff returning to the on-campus workplace must conduct symptom monitoring every day before reporting to work. Staff members must be free of ANY symptoms potentially related to COVID-19 Temperature monitoring will be required following established protocols. Access the UIC temperature reporting form here . COVID-19 Public Spaces and Office Safety Guidance Guidance specific to the College of Engineering: Each day an individual comes to campus, that person must fill out the UIC temperature and symptom reporting form . Based on the answers provided, the system will immediately return a result of “Admit” (in which case the person may come to campus) or “No Admit” (in which case the person may not come in). When an individual scans a UIC ID card to enter a building, the system will note the entry and determine whether the person had received “Admit” clearance for the day. If an “Admit” clearance is not on file for that specific day, a violation will be entered in the card access system 30 minutes past the time of entry. Individuals who enter without submitting a reporting form will receive an email 30 minutes after entry asking them to submit the form and receive “Admit” clearance in order to remain on campus. COE procedures for noncompliance are as follows: For each notice of violation, the responsible lab safety manager will communicate with lab director (faculty PI), who will need to vouch in writing that the individual in violation is healthy and has subsequently submitted the reporting form. Upon any violation, if a lab has had two prior violations during the past 30 days, the lab safety manager must notify the department head. If any lab has had five violations during the past 30 days, the department must notify the dean. Refer to this page Face masks Social distancing Using elevators Cleaning/disinfection Meetings If you do not have the need to remain anonymous, please contact EHSO directly at labsafety@uic.edu . It is much easier to resolve safety issues when EHSO has access to your contact information. If it is important for you to remain anonymous, please include as much information as possible and report anonymously Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Campus public health requirements “ Circle back to campus ” topic index (scroll to bottom of linked page) University public health requirements Checklist for the safe reopening of research laboratories Guidance for safety in public spaces and offices Pandemic recovery annexes for UIC buildings Signage and other printable resources COE lab door sign (download-and-print PNG file) FAQ for facility recovery managers Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Try the new research expertise finder About Back to main content Dean Faculty Distinguished Professors Book Dedications Faculty Development Faculty Honors Faculty Meetings Teaching Resources Research Resources Administration Graduate Research Staff Advisory Board Alumni Diversity Facilities Engineering Innovation Building MakerSpace Summer Camp News RISE Contact Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>