<DOCNO>2383</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ecc.uic.edu/events-2/engineering-career-fair</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Engineering Career Center Main Menu Expand Home menu Expand The Spark menu Expand Career Tools menu Expand Students/Alum menu Expand Employers menu Expand Events menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Search Handshake Student Employment Office UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Engineering Career Center Events College of Engineering Job & Internship Fair College of Engineering Job & Internship Fair Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Technology Job and Internship Fair Engineering Job and Internship Fair Introduce yourself to employers with this guide! Employer? Visit our Employer Page Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link If you require an accommodation in order to participate in the career fair, please contact Jonna McHugh . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Never been to an in-person career fair or recruitment event before? Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered! Students must bring: At least 10 printed copies of your resume to hand out to employers. Printers will not be available onsite. Pen and paper for taking notes during your conversations with employers. A padfolio Your smartphone for accessing the event app. The app contains the list of employers and a floor map showing where they are located. The app will be available for download in the App Store and Google Play shortly before the event. If you do not have a smartphone, limited printed lists and maps will be available at the front check-in. Note : There will be a room where you can leave your coat and backpack (leave items at your own risk). Get your resume looking polished and presentable Your resume should be neatly formatted and include relevant engineering content. See example engineering resumes here . Schedule a 1:1 advising appointment Students must bring printed copies of your resume! padfolio . Research the employers you plan on meeting Employers appreciate when you know about their business and their open positions: do your research! Besides visiting company websites, check Handshake, LinkedIn, Glassdoor and news articles or blog posts to find up-to-date information on the companies you are interested in speaking with. The more you know about your target employers, the more confidence you will have when meeting them at the career fair! Prepare an elevator pitch An elevator pitch (30-45 seconds long) is what you say when introducing yourself to an employer during the event. An elevator pitch typically includes your name, your major, year in school, and 1-2 highlights about yourself (e.g. a technical skill you know, a recent internship you had, a current project you are working on, etc.) and why you’re interested in their company. Practicing your elevator pitch will give you confidence when meeting employers at the fair (and will also impress the employer). Fun fact: it’s called an elevator pitch because the time it takes to introduce yourself should take take roughly the amount of time you’d spend riding an elevator with someone (only 30-60 seconds!). Use this guide to help you develop your elevator pitch! Present yourself professionally Make your first impression with employers a positive one; attend the event looking professional, neat, and well-groomed. Professional attire (such as suits, dresses, skirts, dress slacks, dress shoes, and blazers) is recommended. If you do not own professional attire, discount stores such as TJ Maxx or Marshalls often have great and cost-effective options. Personal hygiene is important. All attendees must look and smell clean. Treat the event like a job interview. Show enthusiasm for the company and use your time with each employer wisely. Maintain professional behavior at all times. What should I say to the employer? State your name clearly. Stand out in a positive way by sharing a memorable story in your elevator pitch (see “Preparation is Key” section). Ask questions! Employers appreciate when students ask questions because it shows that you are truly interested in the company. Ask for the employer’s contact info in order to follow up with the employer. They can’t provide their email? Write down their full name and connect on LinkedIn so you can follow up with them. How should I present myself? Employers notice how you carry yourself and your facial expressions say a lot. Maintain professional behavior, as if you are in interview mode the entire time. Follow up with employers after you attend the career fair. This is arguably the most important step. Use the contacts you collected and follow up with your target employers through email or LinkedIn. A brief email or personalized LinkedIn invite shows the employer your strong interest level in them. Here are some tips on writing a follow-up thank you note. Be patient. Employers/Recruiters are busy and will get back to you if they are interested. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Events Back to main content Upcoming Events Job Fair Information for Students University of Illinois Chicago Contact 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-8374 rcconroy@uic.edu Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>