<DOCNO>2399</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ecc.uic.edu/mentoring-program</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Engineering Career Center Main Menu Expand Home menu Expand The Spark menu Expand Career Tools menu Expand Students/Alum menu Expand Employers menu Expand Events menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Search Handshake Student Employment Office UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Engineering Career Center Employers UIC Connected - Alumni Mentoring UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring We have moved the Engineering Mentoring to UIC Connected, an exclusive virtual networking platform to connect with fellow alumni and current students for mentorship and career growth! Become a Mentor! Sign up here Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Here are inspiring Offer career/life advice and suggestions overall Share in depth experiences that have shaped your professional career Provide ideas about different directions to pursue and help identify interests Help the student develop professional connections and skills Discuss projects in your field to give the student a glimpse on what to expect in the workplace Discuss ideas on what to do after completing a degree (e.g. attend grad school, complete a certification) Talk about current trends and skills in the industry Give insight on specific skills to make the student more marketable Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link “The most important take away for me was seeing the work my mentor does and hearing about his work. School on its own would not have shown me what project management or design building could be.” Kitty, senior, civil engineering (featured in the photo with her mentor) “My mentor has given a lot of insight in all the questions I have been asking. We mostly talk about school stuff and research.” Danilo, senior, computer engineering “My mentor has been great. We had phone conversations once every couple of weeks and he gave me excellent advice regarding school, projects, and finding a job. I even got a tour of his work place and what they do.” Xiong, senior, electrical engineering “I received a plethora of advice regarding the real world and the experiences encountered by my mentor that has, quite honestly, helped me immensely. His experience regarding graduate school helped me to open my eyes at the possibility of going myself. I am immensely fortunate to have spoken to such a humble and wise individual.” — Brandon, senior, mechanical engineering Employers Back to main content Engagement Opportunities Post Positions on Handshake 2019 Employment Outcomes Career Fair Information for Employers UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring Senior Design Expo Hiring International Students University of Illinois Chicago Contact 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-8374 rcconroy@uic.edu Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>