<DOCNO>2439</DOCNO>
<URL>https://bme.uic.edu/undergraduate/biomedical-engineering-major</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Give Alumni UIC Engineering UIC Medicine UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Colleges of Engineering and Medicine Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering Undergraduate Biomedical Engineering Major Biomedical Engineering Major Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link A biomedical engineering major prepares you to work in the unique intersection where living systems and nonliving systems come together. The natural world is an amazing, highly complex place that the biomedical engineering major will help you to understand. Perhaps equally amazing is the universe of approaches that human beings have identified—and are continuing to develop—to make our quality of life even better. Studying biomedical engineering as an undergraduate at UIC will help you apply quantitative analysis and design to living systems and hybrid systems (which contain some living components). Many paths become open to you as a biomedical engineering major. Perhaps you want to become a bioengineer, designing smart replacements for tissue or bone, developing new tools for non-invasive medical imaging or diagnostics, or shaping molecules into revolutionary new drug therapies. Maybe you want to move on to medical school, dental school, graduate work in pharmacy, or law school with a focus on patent law. No matter what part of biomedical engineering excites you the most, and whether you envision graduate school or industry work after graduation, the UIC biomedical engineering major will offer you solid preparation. The major is outlined in detail in the course catalog ; the information below provides an overview. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Biomedical engineering majors complete coursework in four categories: Nonengineering and general education courses provide you with a foundation in the sciences and make you a well-informed graduate in disciplines outside of biomedical engineering. You will take 67 to 68 credit hours in this area, including fundamental courses in biology, chemistry, physics, and math, as well as a range of “chart-your-own-path” classes in categories such as Understanding the Past and Exploring World Cultures. For details on general education requirements, please consult the course catalog . Students earn 39 credit hours from engineering courses that all biomedical engineering majors must take. These courses—including Bioinstrumentation and Measurement, Biotransport, and Biostatistics—offer a thorough introduction to the field. For details on these requirements, please consult the course catalog . Students earn 13 to 16 credit hours in this group, which includes a course in computer science, a course in electrical and computer engineering, and three biomedical engineering electives. You have two or more choices in most of these categories. For an explanation of the options, see the course catalog . Each student works with a faculty advisor to develop a slate of courses totaling 9 credits in one of the four biomedical engineering concentrations: bioinformatics, biomedical imaging, cell and tissue engineering, or neural engineering. Concentrations represent a specific research area or professional interest, a helpful distinguishing factor when you move on to graduate study or look for full-time jobs. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link As explained above, concentrations allow you to define an area of focus for your biomedical engineering major. The department offers four concentrations, each of which requires that you complete a specific collection of courses. The concentration options are: The bioinformatics concentration brings together computer science, statistics, and molecular biology to explain how genetics directly affect the function of all living things. Students pursuing this option begin its requirements with BME 480 Introduction to Bioinformatics, which focuses on using computers to analyze gene sequences and other forms of biological information. They also learn how to use bioinformatics tools in BME 481 Bioinformatics Laboratory, which offers rigorous hands-on experience. Important: The courses listed below are typical of concentration area elective courses chosen by bioinformatics concentrators. This is NOT a complete list of appropriate courses. Specific course choices should be made in consultation with the advisor. Appropriate concentration area elective courses will provide depth in the discipline of bioinformatics and help to make the student competitive for the position or program that will be entered after the bachelor’s degree. Concentration area elective courses must comply with the guidelines listed on the concentration area elective form, available in the student resources page . Be sure to use the concentration area elective form for the curriculum you are following. Course # Course Name Relevance 408/410 1-4 hours CHEM 234 Up to 3 hours Biomedical imaging provides ways to see inside the human body: enhancing current methods, such as magnetic resonance, ultrasound, and nuclear imaging, as well as exploring the cutting edge. Required courses include BME 421 Biomedical Imaging, which delves into the engineering and scientific principles associated with x-ray, magnetic resonance, ultrasound, computed tomographic and nuclear imaging. In this concentration’s lab course, BME 423, students have the chance to practice acquiring and processing real biomedical imaging data. Concentration area elective courses must comply with the guidelines listed on the concentration area elective form, available in the student resources page . Be sure to use the concentration area elective form for the curriculum you are following. Required courses: BME 421 Biomedical Imaging . 3 credits. Taught in the fall semester. Introduction to engineering and scientific principles associated with X-ray, magnetic resonance, ultrasound, computed tomographic and nuclear imaging.  Previously listed as BIOE 421. Prerequisite(s): MATH 220 and MATH 310. BME 423 Biomedical Imaging Laboratory. Selective Courses. select at least two BME 398 BME 407 BME 422 BME 470 BME 471 BME 494 ECE 415 Cell and tissue engineers create and grow biological structures that can restore human function, such as insulin production, or stimulate the body to repair injuries by regenerating itself. This concentration begins with BME 455 Introduction to Cell and Tissue Engineering, in which students explore emerging trends and technologies in this field. In the lab course, BME 456, students learn all about polymer scaffold fabrication, microstamping biomolecules, cellular adhesion and proliferation assays, and immo/fluorescent tagging. (If you don’t know what all of that is right now, don’t worry—you will!) Important: The courses listed below are typical of Concentration Area Elective (CAE) courses chosen by Cell & Tissue Engineering students. This is NOT a complete list of appropriate courses. Specific course choices should be made in consultation with the advisor. Appropriate CAE courses will provide depth in the discipline of Cell & Tissue Engineering and help to make the student competitive for the position or program that will be entered after the B.S. CAE courses must comply with the guidelines listed on the Concentration Area Elective form, available on the student resources page . Be sure to use the CAE form for the curriculum you are following. Course # Course Name Relevance 408/410 CHEM 234 Up to 3 hours 1-4 hours Neural engineering uses artificial bioelectric interfaces to create neuro-prosthetic devices such as cochlear implants, which are in use today, and a silicon retina, which is being developed. Students learn about modeling and design of neural engineering devices in BME 475 Neural Engineering I: Introduction to Hybrid Neural Systems. In the BME 476 Neural Engineering lab course, students have the chance to work with animals as they get hands-on experience with computational and experimental models of engineered neural systems, especially neuroprostheses and biosensors. Important: BME 472 -Models of the Nervous System is offered in the fall term and a prerequisite for BME 475. The courses listed below are typical of Concentration Area Elective (CAE) courses chosen by neural engineering students. This is NOT a complete list of appropriate courses. Specific course choices should be made in consultation with the advisor. Appropriate CAE courses will provide depth in the discipline of neural engineering and help to make the student competitive for the position or program that will be entered after the B.S. degree. Concentration area elective courses must comply with the guidelines listed on the concentration area elective form, available in the student resources page . Be sure to use the concentration area elective form for the curriculum you are following. Course # Course Name Relevance (required for all Neural Engineering students) 408/410 CHEM 234 1-4 hours Up to 3 hours Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Oluwakemi Oyedokun UIC advantage: diverse Post-graduation plans: Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Favorite place in Chicago: Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Vish Vijayakumar Talk about life as a medical student. What positive change do you hope to create in the world? Perks of studying in Chicago: Fun is fundamental: At least three times a week, I play some combination of soccer, basketball, and/or tennis. According to my peers, I’m a really good goalie. Back in the day, I used to be a top-100 chess player in the United States in my age group. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Tommy Puttrich Name one thing you think UIC does better than anywhere else: Favorite thing about the department you’re majoring in: Salman Khetani Les Bogdanowicz . Engineering project/assignment you did that you’re most proud of: MTM lab . I’m currently investigating the effects of a chemotherapy drug on a specific cancer cell type. Favorite restaurant in Chicago: Jim’s Original . It has cheap and classic food. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link To explore the biomedical engineering major in greater detail, here are some key resources: Biomedical engineering one-page summary (PDF) Biomedical engineering course catalog page Biomedical engineering degree requirements Resources for undergraduate students Undergraduate admissions information Dual-degree BS/MS Minor in biomedical engineering Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The biomedical engineering program at UIC is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org . As part of our accreditation process, ABET asks our department to capture the overall goals of the biomedical engineering program. These are called our educational program objectives . They are: Graduates will compete effectively and favorably with peers for positions in industry, professional school, or graduate programs, as dictated by the students’ broader goals while at UIC. Graduates will remain active contributors to the field of biomedical engineering through professional societies, service to scholarly or technical journals, alumni activities, mentoring, contributions to education or human resources, or other activities beyond the basic requirements of their occupation. Graduates will demonstrate leadership in their professions, as evidenced by scholarly and technical publication or other measure of professional productivity, including awards and honors, and advancement within the organizations in which they are employed, as appropriate to the individual career path. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Another part of the ABET accreditation process requires the department to identify the specific knowledge and skills that students are intended to have when they complete their undergraduate education. These are called student outcomes . Students graduating from the biomedical engineering program at UIC will have: an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies an ability to apply principles of engineering, biology, human physiology, chemistry, calculus-based physics, mathematics (through differential equations) and statistics an ability to solve biomedical engineering problems, including those associated with the interaction between living and non-living systems an ability to analyze, model, design and realize biomedical engineering devices, systems, components, or processes an ability to make measurements on and interpreting data from living systems In the 2021-2022 academic year, 332 students are enrolled at UIC Engineering as biomedical engineering majors across all class years. The department graduated 67 biomedical engineering majors in the academic year ending August 2021. View historical enrollment and graduation data here. Apply to UIC! Click here Undergraduate Back to main content Admissions Apply Now Financial Aid and Funding Contact Us Admitted Students Accreditation Biomedical Engineering Major Accelerated BS/MS Biomedical Engineering Minor Courses Internships and Jobs Research Experiences for Undergraduates Senior Design Student Groups Student Resources Undergraduate Academic Advising University of Illinois Chicago ABOUT UIC BME Contact Accreditation About Us Campus Resources Laboratory Safety Counseling Center Disability Resource Center (DRC) Webstore (Software Purchasing) Visit UIC Campus UIC SAFE Mobile App Department Resources Purchasing and Reimbursements HR Procedures Room Reservations Announcement Request Media Resources Online Learning Teaching Online Essentials Research Resources Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Phone: 312 996 2335 Fax: 312 996 5921 bme@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>