<DOCNO>2442</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ece.uic.edu/undergraduate/ce-major</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Electrical and Computer Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate Computer Engineering Major Computer Engineering Major Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link A computer engineering major from UIC positions you to develop computer technologies—hardware and software—that increase human capabilities worldwide. Think of all the things that have changed in computing in the last two decades. Computer engineering is a fast-changing field, and UIC’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering provides you with an education that will help you drive and lead those changes—not just keep pace with them. The computer engineering major is outlined in full detail in UIC’s undergraduate course catalog . The information below offers an overview of what CE majors can expect. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link This one-page overview explains why a computer engineering major aligns well with current job growth around the world and offers insight into the academic experience at UIC. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Computer engineering majors complete coursework in three categories: Nonengineering and general education courses: Nonengineering and general education courses provide a foundation in math and science and will make you a well-informed graduate in disciplines outside of computer engineering. You will take 53 credit hours in this area, including chemistry, physics, math, and a range of “chart-your-own-path” classes in categories such as Exploring World Cultures and Understanding the Individual and Society. For details on general education requirements, consult the course catalog . Required engineering courses: Students earn 58 credit hours from engineering courses that all CE majors must take. These courses—including Circuit Analysis, Introduction to Embedded Systems, and Computer Organization—offer a thorough introduction to the field. For details on these requirements, please consult the course catalog . Technical electives: CE majors complete 17 credit hours from courses that interest them most and will prepare them for the specific careers or research they have in mind. Examples of technical electives include Pattern Recognition I, Computer Algorithms I, Modern Linear Optics, and Transistors. The full list is in the course catalog . See how these requirements play out for a typical student: CE major flowchart . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The ECE department has identified groups of courses that can help guide your academic planning based on the areas of electrical and computer engineering in which you seek to specialize. You can find descriptions of each track and its associated courses on this page . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Fabian Torres Why did you choose UIC? I wanted to experience a top-notch engineering program in the heart of my favorite city, Chicago. Name one thing you think UIC does better than anywhere else: UIC’s sense of family and camaraderie is amazing. It takes time, but once you make good connections with friends and faculty, you’ll see that they really want you to do your best, take away valuable skills, and make life-long relationships. It really is the people that make UIC what it is. Dream job: Software engineer Engineering project/assignment you did that you’re most proud of: I was pretty happy when I got my Conway’s Game of Life project working in CS 107 because I always wanted to learn how to code. With CS 107 being my introductory-level C-coding class, I was able to go from knowing little to nothing in coding concepts to building an entire working program from scratch. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Jeraldine Milla Would you recommend the College of Engineering to new applicants? If so, why? Dream job: How is the College of Engineering preparing you for the working world? Place you’re most likely to be found on campus, and why: Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The computer engineering program at UIC is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org . As part of our accreditation process, ABET asks our department to capture the overall goals of the electrical and computer engineering programs. These are called our educational program objectives . Within a few years of graduation, our talented graduates will: Contribute to their employers, organizations, and communities. Be leaders in their professions around the world and expand engineering knowledge in a variety of communities. Practice and exhibit high ethical values and communicate effectively with colleagues and the public. Pursue advanced degrees or become engineers, researchers, innovators, consultants, or entrepreneurs. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Another part of the ABET accreditation process requires the department to identify the specific knowledge and skills that students are intended to have when they complete their undergraduate education. These are called student outcomes . Students graduating from the electrical engineering, computer engineering, and engineering physics programs at UIC will have: an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. In the 2021-2022 academic year, 355 students are enrolled at UIC Engineering as computer engineering majors across all class years. The department graduated 62 computer engineering majors in the academic year ending August 2021. View historical enrollment and graduation data here. Apply to UIC! Click here Undergraduate Back to main content Admissions Accreditation Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Engineering Physics Courses Internships and Jobs Minors Student Groups Student Resources Advising Instructions Quicklinks Contact Us Open Positions Faculty Resources Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., 1020 SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3423 Fax: (312) 996-6465 ecestudentaffairs@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>