<DOCNO>2445</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ece.uic.edu/undergraduate/ee-major</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Electrical and Computer Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate Electrical Engineering Major Electrical Engineering Major Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link If something can be switched on, an electrical engineer likely had a hand in its development. Electrical engineering is always extending its boundaries into new areas of technology. Electrical engineers are developing the technology needed to power electric cars far beyond the range of today’s batteries and charging stations. They are working on nanoscale devices that have the potential to reshape medical diagnosis and treatment. Electrical engineering is helping us to be more energy-efficient and exploring ways to make renewable energy useful to a greater proportion of the world’s population. What about electrical engineering excites you? Perhaps you want to help create the robots that will be powered by the next generation of artificial intelligence. Maybe you will develop a way that puts wind energy onto the grid in a more efficient way. Or you could be part of a team that determines what 6G wireless will be like and when we will get it. Full degree requirements for the electrical engineering major are in the UIC course catalog , but the overview below provides a sense of what’s ahead in EE. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link If you’re curious about electrical engineering, start here. This one-page overview will explain why this major is important and how you can use it to launch your career. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Electrical engineering majors complete coursework in three categories: Nonengineering and general education courses: Nonengineering and general education courses provide a foundation in math and science and will make you a well-informed graduate in disciplines outside of electrical engineering. You will take 53 credit hours in this area, including chemistry, physics, math, and a range of “chart-your-own-path” classes in categories such as Understanding U.S. Society and Understanding the Creative Arts. For details on general education requirements, consult the course catalog . Required engineering courses: Students earn 58 credit hours from engineering courses that all EE majors must take. These courses—including Electronics I and II, Discrete and Continuous Signals and Systems, and Solid-State Device Theory—introduce you to the field. For details on these requirements, please consult the course catalog . Technical electives: EE majors complete 17 credit hours from courses that interest them most and will prepare them for the specific careers or research they have in mind. Examples of technical electives include Nanoelectronics, RF and Microwave Guided Propagation, Power Semiconductor Devices and Integrated Circuits, and Robotics: Algorithms and Controls. The full list is in the course catalog . See how these requirements play out for a typical student: EE major flowchart . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The ECE department has identified groups of courses that can help guide your academic planning based on the areas of electrical and computer engineering in which you seek to specialize. You can find descriptions of each track and its associated courses on this page . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Muhammad Shaikh Dream job: Name one thing you think UIC does better than anywhere else: What do you hope to be doing right after graduation? How is the College of Engineering preparing you for the working world? Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Marah Abuhindi Name one thing you think UIC does better than anywhere else: Favorite course: ECE 265 Introduction to Logic Design and ECE 266 Introduction to Embedded Systems . Both offered great hands-on experience and exciting projects! What is the most valuable student organization you’ve joined? Society of Women Engineers Place you’re most likely to be found on campus: Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The electrical engineering program at UIC is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org . As part of our accreditation process, ABET asks our department to capture the overall goals of the electrical and computer engineering programs. These are called our educational program objectives . Within a few years of graduation, our talented graduates will: Contribute to their employers, organizations, and communities. Be leaders in their professions around the world and expand engineering knowledge in a variety of communities. Practice and exhibit high ethical values and communicate effectively with colleagues and the public. Pursue advanced degrees or become engineers, researchers, innovators, consultants, or entrepreneurs. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Another part of the ABET accreditation process requires the department to identify the specific knowledge and skills that students are intended to have when they complete their undergraduate education. These are called student outcomes . Students graduating from the electrical engineering, computer engineering, and engineering physics programs at UIC will have: an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. In the 2021-2022 academic year, 353 students are enrolled at UIC Engineering as electrical engineering majors across all class years. The department graduated 84 electrical engineering majors in the academic year ending August 2021. View historical enrollment and graduation data here. Apply to UIC! Click here Undergraduate Back to main content Admissions Accreditation Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Engineering Physics Courses Internships and Jobs Minors Student Groups Student Resources Advising Instructions Quicklinks Contact Us Open Positions Faculty Resources Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., 1020 SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3423 Fax: (312) 996-6465 ecestudentaffairs@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>