<DOCNO>2446</DOCNO>
<URL>https://mie.uic.edu/undergraduate/em-major</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Undergraduate programs Engineering Management Major Engineering Management Major Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Engineering management is an ideal major for people who want to oversee major projects, facilities, teams, and whole businesses. Combine the essentials of an engineering education with the core of a business degree. That’s engineering management. Graduates of this program—a joint offering with UIC’s College of Business Administration —leave UIC with an understanding of how to successfully oversee processes and people in a technical environment. As an engineering management major, your course plan will weave together industrial engineering classes with an immersion in business. You’ll delve into the business environment, business strategy, organizational structure, and finance. This major is well-suited to students who see themselves in corporate engineering management positions as well as those who want to become entrepreneurs. Download our 1-page EM major overview Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Engineering management majors complete coursework in three categories: Nonengineering and general education courses: Nonengineering and general education courses provide your foundation. You will take 74 credit hours in this category, including math, science, and three “chart-your-own-path” classes in areas such as Exploring World Cultures and Understanding the Creative Arts. Engineering management majors take more courses in this category because they also gain an understanding of business via courses in economics, management, accounting, finance, and marketing. Learn more in the course catalog . Required engineering courses: Students earn 52 credit hours from engineering courses that all EM majors must take. Many are drawn from industrial engineering, such as Production Planning and Inventory Control, Safety Engineering, and Plant Layout and Materials Handling. To see all of these courses, visit the course catalog . Free elective: The final 3 credit hours of the EM major come from one or more electives outside of industrial engineering and business administration. This course is meant to give you exposure to a new and different topic of your choosing. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Undergraduate Back to main content Admissions Accreditation Courses Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Engineering Management Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Academic Advising Quicklinks Faculty Resources Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources ABET Accreditation Contact UIC MIE Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 2039 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-5317 Fax: (312) 413-0447 mie@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>