<DOCNO>2449</DOCNO>
<URL>https://mie.uic.edu/undergraduate/ie-major</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Undergraduate programs Industrial Engineering Major Industrial Engineering Major Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link If you’re not certain what industrial engineering is or what you can do with a degree in it, don’t worry—you’re not alone. Almost all of our incoming undergraduates in IE are delving into this fascinating area for the first time. The page linked below will give you a helpful overview of this field and all its advantages. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Industrial engineers find ways to make complex processes and systems work better. They help operations to run more efficiently and more safely, leading to improvements in the products we use every day, people’s jobs, and human satisfaction. As an industrial engineer, you might design and implement better ways of doing things or making things. You might find ways to improve the value or profit of goods that we use every day. You also could oversee project management, devise improvements to manufacturing plants and factories, or harness the power of data to imaging the next generation of processes. If you’ve ever looked at something and said to yourself, “I see a smarter way they could do this,” you could have the makings of a great industrial engineer. Download our 1-page IE major overview Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Industrial engineering majors complete coursework in four categories: Nonengineering and general education courses: Nonengineering and general education courses provide a foundation in math and science and will make you a well-informed graduate in disciplines outside of industrial engineering. You will take 56 credit hours in this category, including math, management, statistics, and a range of “chart-your-own-path” classes in areas such as Understanding the Past and Understanding the Creative Arts. For details on general education requirements, please see the course catalog . Required engineering courses: Students earn 63 credit hours from engineering courses that all IE majors must take. These courses—including Manufacturing Process Principles, Work Productivity Analysis, and Quality Control and Reliability—introduce you to the field. More information is available in the course catalog . Technical electives: IE majors complete 6 credit hours from courses that interest them most and will prepare them for the specific careers or research they have in mind. Possibilities include Introduction to Computer-Aided Design, Engineering Dynamics, an undergraduate research course, and more (see the course catalog Free elective: The final 3 credit hours of the IE major come from one or more electives outside the industrial engineering rubric, based on your choice. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Jorge Sanchez Name one thing you think UIC does better than anywhere else: Most challenging engineering project/assignment you’ve conquered so far: Student/campus organizations you’ve joined: UIC Radio , Latin American Recruitment and Educational Services (LARES) Leaders , Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Place you’re most likely to be found on campus, and why: Student Center East , simply because there are many different areas to study and do homework. Favorite place in Chicago: La Michoacana Premium Pilsen . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Natalie Ferguson Industrial Engineering, BS ’21 | Plymouth, MI Name one thing you think UIC does better than anywhere else: Engineering project/assignment you did that you’re most proud of: Student organizations you’ve joined: Institute for Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE) , a member of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) , I play intermural volleyball, and I am in the gaming club . Favorite musical artist: Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The industrial engineering program at UIC is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org . As part of our accreditation process, ABET asks our department to capture the overall goals of the undergraduate programs in mechanical and industrial engineering. These are called our . For the industrial engineering major, they are: To adeptly apply analytical, experimental, and computer tools in design and performance improvement of manufacturing and service systems. To effectively pursue ethically responsible professional growth through continued learning and by taking on different roles in multidisciplinary teams (i.e., to become better engineers, both technically and in dealing with others). To work successfully in many different situations and with many different kinds of people, and to adapt to changes in the workplace and in the world (i.e., to be engineers who embrace diversity and change). Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Another part of the ABET accreditation process requires the department to identify the specific knowledge and skills that students are intended to have when they complete their undergraduate education. These are called student outcomes . Students graduating from the industrial engineering program at UIC will have: an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. In the 2021-2022 academic year, 90 students are enrolled at UIC Engineering as industrial engineering majors across all class years. The department graduated 27 industrial engineering majors in the academic year ending August 2022. View historical enrollment and graduation data here. Apply to UIC! Click here Undergraduate Back to main content Admissions Accreditation Courses Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Engineering Management Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Academic Advising Quicklinks Faculty Resources Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources ABET Accreditation Contact UIC MIE Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 2039 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-5317 Fax: (312) 413-0447 mie@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>