<DOCNO>2485</DOCNO>
<URL>https://discover.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Discover | University of Illinois at Chicago University of Illinois at Chicago Menu How and when to apply Admission updates On-demand presentations Already Admitted Discover Discover UIC Word Mark discover UIC UIC This site uses Javascript. For a complete experience please enable javascript in your browser. If you need further assistance please consult https://www.enable-javascript.com/ Ready to learn more about Chicago's Public Research University? Explore our live presentations,
                    connect with an admissions counselor, request an appointment and more. Event schedule Check out our schedule below for our online and in-person events. We’ll explore new topics every day and have university and admissions experts on hand to answer your questions. All times CST Search Events UIC Discover webinar schedule Event Department Format Date & Time Show more Loading... View calendar Presentations on demand Explore more than 100 majors and minors in our program finder. Explore majors Additional ways to connect Email your admissions counselor Our admissions counselors are standing by to answer any questions you might have. Send an email Schedule an appointment Request a video or phone appointment with your admissions counselor Schedule appointment Counselor resources Counselors and community organizations can request visits and learn more about UIC Request a visit Campus resources and video library Our campus partners — from our colleges and academic departments to student success
                                    programs — all have additional videos and ways to connect. Visit our resource
                                    library for more information. Resource library Tour resources Tour campus virtually, on your own, or with a student tour guide. We have options for any preference. Self Guided Tours In Person Tours Interactive Map Uniquely UIC. Big Campus. Small Classes. With a 19:1 student to faculty ratio, Chicago’s largest university
                                    has surprisingly small class sizes. 16 Colleges. Unlimited Options. From architecture and data science to psychology and nursing,
                                    choose from hundreds of programs and thousands of classes to build your degree. More for Your Money. UIC’s need-based and merit aid programs, affordable tuition, and
                                    high rankings on value, mean you’ll get a good return on your investment in
                                    yourself. Browse Apply to UIC Program Finder Book a Visit Resources Home Accessibility Privacy Statement Sitemap UIC.edu Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube UIC Logo Discover Contact UIC Undergraduate Admissions Contact Form Social Media Accounts UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC News UI Health Veterans Affairs | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>