<DOCNO>2503</DOCNO>
<URL>https://financialaid.uic.edu/faq</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Main Menu Expand Cost menu Expand Financial Aid Steps menu Expand Types of Aid menu Expand Forms menu Expand FAQ menu Expand Consumer Information menu Eyebrow menu Scholarships UIC Connection Student Affairs UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search FAQ Down arrow icon FAQ Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link A: Students should submit their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) A: Students and parents who are eligible Click Link To IRS. (Note: If you have already used the IRS DRT to transfer your tax return information into your application, click the “View option to link to the IRS” hyperlink.) Enter your FSA ID. (Note: The person whose tax information is being transferred should enter his or her own FSA ID. Students will not be asked to enter their FSA ID if they entered an FSA ID to begin their FAFSA.) Your FAFSA will be saved and you will be transferred to the IRS Web site. On the IRS Web site, enter the requested information exactly as it appears on your tax return. If you get an error that there’s no match, double check your information, including the exact mailing address on your return. Once authenticated with the IRS, you will be provided with information surrounding your IRS tax information. You can either transfer your information from the IRS, or choose to return to FAFSA on the Web. If you use the IRS DRT to transfer your tax return information from the IRS, the information will not display on your FAFSA. For your protection, the answer to each question is replaced with “Transferred from the IRS.” The IRS DRT allows you to securely transfer original IRS tax return information, but not Form 1040X amended tax return information. If you filed a Form 1040X amended tax return, you may need to work with your Financial Aid Administrator to ensure that any information you corrected on Form 1040X is reflected in the amounts transferred to your FAFSA. A: For many students, only a completed Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) http://my.uic.edu . A: We recommend submitting outstanding financial aid requirements as soon as possible. The deadline for submitting most outstanding financial aid documents is two weeks before the end of classes for each semester. The specific deadlines can be found on the SFAS Calendar . A: You can click here A. Emails sent to you from the UIC Financial Aid office (faomail@uillinois.edu) will always say, “** This is an automated UIC Financial Aid communication. Please do not reply to this email A: Only students who have completed a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and submitted any required documentation will receive a UIC financial aid notification. If you submitted your FAFSA over two weeks ago and still have not received a financial aid notification, you may have outstanding requirements. Students may need to submit Dependent/Independent Verification Worksheets, US Citizenship documents, Selective Service status, etc. Students will receive e-mail notifications from SFAS requesting additional documentation or they can view requirements at www.my.uic.edu Financial aid may be cancelled for students who fail to meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) . A: New/transfer students who submitted a FAFSA and any required documentation requested by SFAS will begin to receive financial aid notifications around the middle of March each year. Students with outstanding documentation requests may receive an unofficial estimated financial aid notification that is subject to change until all requirements are satisfied. The SFAS calendar A: Continuing students who have submitted their FAFSA and any additional documentation will begin to receive financial aid notifications around early June each year. A: If a student or family member recently lost a job or experienced financial hardship due to death, divorce, or unexpected medical expenses, they may submit a Change of Financial Situation No, you will only be charged for housing at UIC if you enter into an official Campus Housing contract with the UIC Campus Housing Office. For more information on UIC Housing options, please visit this link: https://housing.uic.edu/ If your housing plans are “with parent” or “on-campus” as indicated on your FAFSA, there is no need to notify our office as all housing costs in your Cost of Attendance is estimated/in-direct charges. A: Students apply for federal student loans by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) A: Students can accept/decline/reduce any federal loan offered to them through the online financial aid notification. Students access the financial aid notification through the UIC Portal at http://my.uic.edu A: The deadline for accepting federal loans in any given semester is generally about two weeks before the end of that semester. Tuition and fee billing due dates are prior to the due dates to accept loans. A: Yes, previously declined loans can still be accepted. Students must access the financial aid notification online at http://my.uic.edu Students will receive a revised financial aid notification after requested changes are updated. Typed requests should be as specific as possible. A: Students who accepted a partial amount of the federal loans are still able to request an increase in loans. Students must access the financial aid notification online at http://my.uic.edu Students will receive a revised financial aid notification after requested changes are updated. Typed requests should be as specific as possible. A: Students can reduce loans at any time during the semester if they borrowed more than necessary. Students must access the financial aid notification online at http://my.uic.edu Students will receive an e-mail notification after requested changes are updated. Typed requests should be as specific as possible. Important: When a loan has already disbursed to a student account, any reduction in funds will be billed back the student’s account and create a balance owed to UIC. Students who received a refund from loans will need to use that refund to pay the resulting balance. Students who used loans to pay tuition and fees but did not receive refunds will be responsible for paying their loan reduction balance. A: The difference between Subsidized and Unsubsidized loans here . A: The payment of financial aid is called disbursement. Financial aid disburses no earlier than 10 days before the beginning of a semester. Disbursement dates and other important dates and deadlines can be found on the SFAS Calendar . After the initial payment of financial aid, additional payments A: Federal Direct loans (Stafford Subsidized/Unsubsidized and Parent/Grad PLUS* loans) and Campus-based loans (Perkins, HPSL and Nursing Student loans) have mandatory requirements. Federal Direct loans require Entrance Counseling Master Promissory Note (MPN) http://studentaid.gov . For all campus-based loans, students must have completed a Promissory Note available on the Heartland ECSI website . Important: Loans will not disburse for students enrolled less than half time, even if all requirements are complete. Half time is 6 or more credit hours for undergraduate and professional students and 5 or more credit hours for graduate students. *Graduate students who accepted a PLUS are subject to credit approval. An undisbursed PLUS loan may have been denied due to adverse credit. Students can view a PLUS loan denial notification by logging in to http://studentaid.gov A: The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) serves as your application for all federal, state, and institutional grants. Be sure to include UIC’s federal school code (001776) so we receive your application. A: Yes – students admitted during the spring term will receive full consideration for all institutional grants. A: We have combined the UIC Access to Excellence Program and UIC Gateway Grant Program, into the new, UIC Opportunity Grant. For more information, please see our UIC Opportunity Grant A: The UIC Opportunity Grant pays a maximum UIC Opportunity Grant A: Potentially! Please see our UIC Completion Grant A: Potentially! Please see our UIC Completion Grant A: Every year ISAC, the state agency that administers the MAP Grant The MAP Grant is a need-based award. Financial need MAP Grant eligibility is determined by FASFA information and tuition, differential and fees charged at UIC. There are limits to MAP Grant eligibility based on grade level and total credit hours. Those details can be found at the bottom of the State Grant page here . The MAP Grant is available only to Illinois residents and/or the dependents of Illinois residents. If a student or their parents (for dependent students) no longer reside in Illinois, they will no longer be eligible for the MAP Grant. A: The MAP Grant pays according to the number of enrolled credit hours. Students enrolled in 15 or more credit hours will receive 100% of the MAP Grant award on their financial aid notification. Enrollment below 15 credit hours causes a prorated MAP disbursement. If the number of credit hours changes after the initial disbursement of the MAP Grant, by adding or dropping credit hours, the funds already paid to a student account may be adjusted. Information about how enrollment affects the MAP Grant and is available here . A: MAP and Pell Grants will be adjusted if students enroll part-time. Loans, work-study, and UIC aid may be adjusted if the reduced enrollment also reduces a student’s financial need. Students must enroll at least half time to receive institutional grants and loans. A: All students have a Cost of Attendance A: Federal Work Study Student Employment A: Federal Work Study (FWS) is a need-based program, so students must be eligible for FWS based on their FAFSA data. Students interested in FWS should submit a request online through their financial aid notification. FWS funding is limited to undergraduate students, and not all requests for funding are granted. Requests are reviewed in the order they are submitted. A: Students may freely add/drop courses until the 10th day of the semester. If a course is dropped during the add/drop period, the total number of credit hours is reduced which may result in an adjustment of tuition and fees link . A: Withdrawing from a course or courses after the add/drop period (not a full withdrawal from a semester) does not affect current term aid or enrollment hours; however, students receive a grade of “W” for the course(s) they withdrew from. Withdrawals can impact future aid eligibility by lowering course completion ratios. See the SAP Policy A: When a student withdraws from all of their classes in a given semester, two separate processes occur. The Office of the Registrar prorates tuition and some fees (according to their withdrawal policy refund schedule ), and Student Financial Aid and Scholarships (SFAS) prorates financial aid as required by federal regulations. An explanation of this proration process can be found here . A: All students who are degree seeking and have a FAFSA on file for the current academic year will be considered for financial aid during the summer semester. Summer financial aid eligibility is evaluated upon enrollment. For more information, view the Summer Financial Aid section found here . A: The only grant that is available for use during the summer is the Federal Pell Grant. Students are only eligible for summer Pell if they did not receive their full Pell award for the fall and spring semesters. Since the Pell Grant pays 100% of the scheduled award when a student takes 12 or more credit hours in a semester, it means that summer Pell will only be available for a student who took fewer than 12 credit hours for the fall and/or spring semesters and did not receive their full award. Most students are only eligible for loans during the summer semester. A: For graduate assistants, SFAS can only post and pay waivers after a qualifying employment appointment is processed by university HR confirming that a student meets their eligibility criteria found here ; between 25%-67% employment covering at least 91 continuous days of the semester (41 in summer). Graduate Assistants must also be enrolled in a minimum of 8 credit hours (3 for summer) for a waiver to be paid. For students awarded Board of Trustees (BOT) Tuition Waivers or Graduate College Waivers For Child of Employee Tuition Waivers , the parent/employee must complete the online application and the student must submit a Benefit Utilization Record to our office. Specific details and policies are found on NESSIE here . To ask about a different type of waiver, please contact us . A: Financial aid can be cancelled due to failure to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) If financial aid is cancelled from failure to meet SAP requirements students may submit an appeal which will be reviewed by a committee. Submitting an appeal does not guarantee that aid will be reinstated. Outside of an approved appeal, students can regain financial aid eligibility by successfully completing enough coursework to bring their GPA and course completion ratio at or above the required minimums. If students believe they now meet the SAP requirements but aid has been cancelled, they must notify SFAS directly and submit the SAP Review Request Form . Appeal deadlines are as follows: SAP_Appeal_Evaluation_Form A: http://www.uic.edu/depts/oar/financial_matters/tuition.html A: Students can waive the Campus Care health insurance by completing an online waiver form available through the Campus Care office website. www.campuscare.uic.edu A: http://paymybill.uillinois.edu/payment/PaymentPlan A: Click on the University Bursar A: The 1098-T form is made available to students online each year by the University Bursar office. https://paymybill.uillinois.edu/resources/understanding_my_1098-t Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link To be eligible for a COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must have: Filed a FAFSA prior to 3/13/2020 Submitted all required documentation to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships before 3/13/2020; Been enrolled in an in-person, degree seeking program prior to 3/13/2020 and remained enrolled through the semester; Been enrolled at half-time status or greater during Spring semester 2020, this means for: Undergraduate Students = 6 credits or above Graduate Students = 5 credits or above Professional Students = 6 credits or above Yes, an application is required for this program. No additional documentation is required. If you have been selected to receive the UIC COVID 19 Emergency Grant, please follow the below steps to access your application: Log in to the student portal: my.uic.edu Click on the Financial Aid tab (second top tab) Once on Financial Aid tab click on “Student Requirements” Select the 2019-2020 Aid year click “Submit” Then click on: “COVID-19 Emergency Grant Application” For upload instructions, please click here: https://docs.financialaid.uic.edu/docs/PDF_upload_guide.pdf $1,000 for Spring Semester. Due to funding limitations, awards will be made on a first-come, first-served basis. Yes, you must provide your application to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships via the Student Portal by 5/8/2020. Incomplete applications will be denied. Applications submitted after 5/8/2020 will not be considered. If you are approved, the status of your application on the Student Portal will be moved to “Satisfied.” You will also receive a revised award letter listing the COVID-19 Emergency Grant Award in your financial aid information. No, approval of your COVID-19 Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE Emergency Grant per semester from UIC. If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you . No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC.   Nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan, or the amount due. You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to impacts COVID-19. You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after the 5/8/2020 deadline. Emergency Grants will be provided via direct deposit. You must be enrolled in direct deposit to receive a UIC Emergency Grant. Yes, there are COVID-19 Emergency Grants during the Summer 2020 Semester but the amount of funding is limited. To be eligible for a Summer COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must have: Filed a FAFSA and submitted all required documentation to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships by 3/13/2020; Been enrolled in an in-person, degree-seeking program prior to 3/13/2020; Be enrolled at UIC in any credit status* through the end of the final add/drop period for Summer 2020, which is 6/19/2020 ;( *This includes 0 credit hour internships) No; No documentation is required for consideration for this program for Summer 2020. $1,000 for Summer Semester No, funding is limited for Summer 2020 and will be awarded as based on: Undergraduates = Initial Date of Summer Registration Graduate/Professionals = Date of 19/20 FAFSA submission If approved, you will receive an email from the Office of Student Financial Aid noting your approval for this program on or after 6/22/2020 No, approval of your COVID-19 Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE Emergency Grant per semester from UIC. If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you. HOWEVER, if you received a UIC COVID-19 Emergency Grant for Spring 2020, that DOES NOT disqualify you for Summer 2020 approval. No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC.   Nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan, or the amount due. You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to impacts COVID-19. You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after the final add/drop period for Summer semester, starting the week of 6/22/2020. Yes, however, funding is very limited. You must have filed a FAFSA for the 20/21 award year Be enrolled in an in-person, degree seeking program for the Fall 2020 semester; and You must have filed and been approved a Change of Financial Situation Appeal Your change of income MUST be due to the COVID 19 Pandemic Please see this link for more information: https://financialaid.uic.edu/aid-process/change-of-financial-situation/ YES Please see this link for the application process: https://financialaid.uic.edu/aid-process/change-of-financial-situation/ $3,000 for Dependent Students; $1,500 for Independent Students. Due to funding limitations, awards will be made on a first-come, first-served basis as based on your Change of Financial Situation Approval date. If you are approved, the status of your Change of Financial Situation Appeal document will be moved to “Satisfied” on your student portal. Once approved, your grant will be processed to your student account in 5 to 7 business days, starting Monday, September 7 th . No, approval of your COVID-19 Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE Emergency Grant per semester from UIC. If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source for the Fall semester, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you . No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC.   Nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan, or the amount due. You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to impacts COVID-19. You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after Fall semester add/drop deadline, starting September 7th. Emergency Grants will be provided via direct deposit. You must be enrolled in direct deposit to receive a UIC Emergency Grant. As of 2/24/2021 all COVID-19 Emergency Grant funding allocated to SFAS has been exhausted. For Emergency Grant support, please review: https://dos.uic.edu/student-assistance/uicare/u-i-care-fund/ You must have filed a FAFSA for the 20/21 Academic Year Be enrolled in an in-person, degree seeking program for the Spring 2021 semester; and You must have filed and been approved for the Change of Financial Situation UIC COVID-19 Emergency Grant Application Your change of income MUST be due to the COVID-19 Pandemic YES Please contact your Financial Aid Counselor at https://financialaid.uic.edu/faq/contact-us/ $3,000 for Dependent Students; $1,500 for Independent Students. Due to funding limitations, awards will be made on a first-come, first-served basis as based on your Change of Financial Situation UIC COVID-19 Emergency Grant Application Approval date. Yes, but only if you are completing the Change of Financial Situation UIC COVID-19 Emergency Grant Application If you are approved, you will receive an email from our office indicating you have been approved. Once approved, your COVID-19 Emergency Grant will be processed to your student account in 5 to 7 business days, starting Monday, January 25 th . No, approval of your COVID-19 Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE COVID-19 Emergency Grant per semester from UIC. If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source for the Spring 2021 semester, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you . No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC. Nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan, or the amount due. You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to the impacts of COVID-19. You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after the Spring 2021 semester add/drop deadline, starting January 25th. COVID-19 Emergency Grants will be provided via direct deposit. You must be enrolled in direct deposit to receive a UIC COVID-19 Emergency Grant. To be eligible for a COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must have: Filed a FAFSA for the 20/21 Academic Year OR have filed an Alternative Application for State Financial Aid for the 20/21 Academic Year Submitted all required documentation to confirm financial aid eligibility to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships before 3/22/2021 Have an Expected Family Contribution of 0 – 9000 as based on your FAFSA Application (FAFSA filers ONLY) Be enrolled in a degree-seeking program for the Spring 2021 semester. If you are not eligible to file a FAFSA or the Alternative Application for State Financial Aid, you can apply for a U and I Cares Emergency Grant via the Dean of Students Office. Please note the amount of funding is limited, and available on first-come, first-served basis Approval is not guaranteed Additional information may be found at: https://dos.uic.edu/student-assistance/uicare/u-i-care-fund/ Yes, Graduate/Professional students have been allocated Emergency Funding To be eligible for a COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must have: Filed a FAFSA for the 20/21 Academic Year Submitted all required documentation to confirm financial aid eligibility to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships before 3/22/2021 Be enrolled in a degree seeking program for the Spring 2021 semester. Up to $1,000 for Spring Semester. Undergraduate Students – NO, an application is NOT required Graduate/Professional Students – YES, an application IS required If you are eligible for the COVID -19 Emergency Grant, your portal (my.uic.edu) will be updated with a document for you to complete and upload. See sample email image shown on the side. At that time, you may apply; however, funding is limited and awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. Electronic signatures are also acceptable for the application Yes, you must provide your application to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships via the Student Portal by 4/15/2021 (DEADLINE HAS NOW BEEN EXTENDED TO 4/30/2021!) Incomplete applications will be denied Applications submitted after 4/30/2021 will not be considered. An email will be sent to your @uic.edu email address with your approval confirmation. If you are approved, the status of your application on the Student Portal will be moved to “Satisfied” An email will be sent to your @uic.edu email address with your approval confirmation. No, approval of your COVID-19 II Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE Emergency Grant per semester from UIC. If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you . No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC, nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan or the amount due. You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to the impact of COVID-19. You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after 4/2/21 for Undergraduate students with a FAFSA on file and 4/26/21 for Graduate/Professional students. For student who filed an Alternative Application for State Financial Aid, we will begin making disbursements at the end of April/early May. Emergency Grants will be provided via direct deposit. You must be enrolled in direct deposit to receive a UIC Emergency Grant. Yes, there are COVID-19 Emergency Grants during the Summer 2021 Semester but the amount of funding is limited. To be eligible for a Summer COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must have: Be enrolled in a degree-seeking program during Summer 2021 PLEASE NOTE: International students are not eligible for Summer 2021 COVID III Emergency Grants For Emergency Support, International students can apply for funding via the U and I Care Emergency Fund in the Dean of Student’s Office Be enrolled at UIC in any credit status* through the end of the final add/drop period for Summer 2021, which is 6/18/2021; No; No documentation is required for consideration for this program for Summer 2021. $500 for Summer Semester Yes, if you meet the criteria above, you can expect to receive a $500 COVID-19 III Emergency Grant for the Summer term If approved, you will receive an email from the Office of Student Financial Aid noting your approval for this program on or after 6/22/2021 No, approval of your COVID-19 III Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE Emergency Grant per semester from UIC.  If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you. HOWEVER, if you received a UIC COVID-19 II Emergency Grant for Spring 2021, that DOES NOT disqualify you for Summer 2021 approval. No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC.   Nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan, or the amount due.  You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to impacts COVID-19.  You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after the final add/drop period for Summer semester, starting the week of 6/22/2021 Yes, there are COVID-19 Emergency Grants during the Fall 2021 Semester but the amount of funding is limited To be eligible for a Fall COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must: Be enrolled in a degree-seeking program during Fall 2021 PLEASE NOTE: International students are not eligible for Fall 2021 COVID III Emergency Grants For Emergency Support, International students can apply for funding via the U and I Care Emergency Fund in the Dean of Student’s Office Be enrolled at UIC in any credit status through the end of the final add/drop period for Fall 2021, which is Friday, September 3 rd . Yes, Graduate/Professional students have been allocated Emergency Funding; an application will be required (please see below). Up to $1,000 for Fall Semester. Undergraduate Students, with established EFCs as based on the FAFSA or RISE application in range of 0 -9000: NO, an application is NOT required Remaining Undergraduates/Graduate/Professional Students – YES, an application IS required. Applications for eligible students will be posted to the UIC portal (my.uic.edu) in mid-September. If you are required to complete an application for the COVID -19 III Emergency Grant, your portal (my.uic.edu) will be updated with a document for you to complete and upload. At that time, you may apply; however, funding is limited and awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. Yes, you must provide your application to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships via the Student Portal by Friday, October 1st Incomplete applications will be denied Applications submitted after October 1 st If you are approved, the status of your application on the Student Portal will be moved to “Satisfied” An email will be sent to your @uic.edu email address with your approval confirmation. No, approval of your COVID-19 II Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. Please note that each student can receive ONLY ONE Emergency Grant per semester from UIC.  If you have received a previous Emergency Grant from your department or another UIC source, we will review your eligibility to determine which grant provides the most assistance to you. No, this grant will not be applied by the University towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC, nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan or the amount due. You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to the impact of COVID-19.  You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after September 7 th After October 11 th Yes, there are COVID-19 Emergency Grants during the Spring 2022 Semester but the amount of funding is limited. To be eligible for a Spring 2022 COVID-19 Emergency Grant, you must: Be enrolled in a program during Spring 2022 PLEASE NOTE: International students are not eligible for Spring 2022 COVID III Emergency Grants For Emergency Support, International students can apply for funding via the U and I Care Emergency Fund Be enrolled at UIC in any credit status greater than 0 credits through the end of the final add/drop period for Spring 2022 which ends on January 21, 2022 No; No documentation is required for consideration for this program for Spring 2022 The COVID-19 III Grant Amount is to be determined for Spring 2022, however, all eligible students will receive the SAME amount of funding Yes, if you meet the criteria above, you can expect to receive a payment from the COVID-19 III Emergency Grant for the Spring term If approved, you will receive an email from the Office of Student Financial Aid noting your approval for this program on or after January 31, 2022 No, approval of your Spring 2022 COVID-19 III Emergency Grant will not affect the amount or eligibility for other financial aid that you have already received. No, the University will not apply this payment towards any outstanding balance you may owe UIC. Nor will it decrease any payments owed against your payment plan, or the amount due.  You can use it to cover any expenses of your choice that may have resulted due to impacts COVID-19.  You will not need to report how you used this funding. We will begin making disbursements to student accounts after the final add/drop period for Spring semester, starting the week of January 31, 2022 NO. Spring 2022 is the LAST TERM of all COVID-19 Emergency Grant programs . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link If you have a change in your financial situation, and would like to appeal the information provided on your 22/23 FAFSA application, please review this page: https://financialaid.uic.edu/aid-process/change-of-financial-situation/ Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link FAQ Back to main content Glossary of Terms Contact Us Student Debt Relief University of Illinois Chicago Quick Links FAFSA my UIC College of Law College of Medicine Office of VA Pop-Up Pantry RESOURCES FinAid.org ISAC National Student Loan Database System (NSLDS) Federal Student Aid on the Web Student Money Management Center Consumer Information Contact Us TOOLS Enrollment Verification Direct Loan Entrance Counseling Direct Loan Master Promissory Note (MPN) Promissory Note for Campus Loans Net Price Calculator Footer Buttons FAQ Contact Us Glossary of Terms Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: money@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>