<DOCNO>2509</DOCNO>
<URL>https://financialaid.uic.edu/types-of-aid/scholarships</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Main Menu Expand Cost menu Expand Financial Aid Steps menu Expand Types of Aid menu Expand Forms menu Expand FAQ menu Expand Consumer Information menu Eyebrow menu Scholarships UIC Connection Student Affairs UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Scholarships Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarships A scholarship is gift assistance that does not have to be repaid. Scholarships are awarded based on a student's academic achievement, athletic ability, field of study, special talents, etc. Notify SFAS of All Scholarships Students must report outside scholarships so SFAS can recalculate aid eligibility. If students have remaining unmet need or have not exceeded their cost of attendance (COA) , other awards will not be affected. Once federal need or COA is met, outside assistance may result in the reduction of Federal Work Study, student loans, or other grants and scholarships to remain compliant with federal regulations. If SFAS is notified that a student will receive outside assistance after receiving a refund, they will be 100% responsible for repaying any refund adjustment. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Chancellor’s Fellows is valued at up to $7,500 a year and may be renewed for a total of eight consecutive, full-time fall or spring semesters. Recipients can find the specific value of their award on their financial aid notification letters, which are distributed beginning in early March. Selection Criteria There are a total of 200 awards that are open to Illinois residents who are also U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens whose families have a household income less than six times the federal poverty rate. See the Illinois Student Assistance Commission web page Please note, funding is limited, and meeting the following criteria does not guarantee receipt of the award. The award is only valid for the term in which it is offered. Other eligibility requirements exist, including: Must have Illinois residency as determined by university policy Must meet all of the state requirements Academic Criteria Must complete a first-year application for admission to UIC by the scholarship priority deadline of Nov. 1, 2022. Must be a 2023 graduating senior from an Illinois high school: Ranked 1st in graduating class Unweighted GPA of 3.70 with a total of at least 8 Honors, Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate (HL) in 11th and 12th grades combined in core subject areas (math, science, English/language arts, social sciences/humanities, foreign languages) Unweighted GPA of 3.70 with a 33 cumulative ACT score or 1450 SAT test scores Financial Criteria Must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or Rise Act application with the UIC school code (001776) by Nov 1, 2022. Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the Federal Poverty guidelines . The award is valued at up to $10,000 a year and may be renewed for a total of eight consecutive, full-time fall or spring semesters. Chancellor’s Laureates Housing Award In addition, recipients will receive a one-time, one-year offer of $10,000 that can be used toward on-campus housing. Recipients can find the specific value of their award on their financial aid notification letters, which are typically distributed in early March. Selection Criteria Open to Illinois residents who are also U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens whose families have a household income less than six times the federal poverty rate. See the Illinois Student Assistance Commission web page Please note, funding is limited, meeting the following criteria does not guarantee receipt of the award. The award is only valid for the term in which it is offered. Other eligibility requirements exist, including: Must have Illinois residency as determined by university policy Must meet all of the state requirements Must be a 2022 graduating senior from an Illinois high school Ranked 1st in graduating class -OR- Have an unweighted GPA of 3.8 or higher -AND- Must have a total of at least 10 Honors, Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate (HL) in 11th and 12th grades combined in core subject areas (math, science, English/language arts, social sciences/humanities, foreign languages) -OR- Have an ACT of 33 or SAT score of 1450 Must complete a first-year application for admission to UIC by Dec. 1, 2021 Financial Aid Criteria Must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) with the UIC school code (001776) by Dec. 1, 2021 Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the Federal Poverty guidelines . For Chancellor’s Laureates: Total EFC (Expected Family Contribution) from FAFSA may not exceed $10,000 Funding is limited, meeting these eligibility requirements does not guarantee selection for the award. Please note, the award is valid for the starting term in which it was offered. The award is valued at up to $10,000 a year and may be renewed for a total of eight consecutive, full-time fall or spring semesters. Recipients can find the specific value of their award on their financial aid notification letters, which are typically distributed in early March. Selection Criteria Open to Illinois residents who are also U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens whose families have a household income less than six times the federal poverty rate. See the Illinois Student Assistance Commission web page Please note, funding is limited, meeting the following criteria does not guarantee receipt of the award. The award is only valid for the term in which it is offered. Other eligibility requirements exist, including: Must have Illinois residency as determined by university policy Must meet all of the state requirements Must be a 2022 graduating senior from an Illinois high school Ranked 1st in graduating class -OR- Have an unweighted GPA of 3.8 or higher -AND- Must have a total of at least 10 Honors, Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate (HL) in 11th and 12th grades combined in core subject areas (math, science, English/language arts, social sciences/humanities, foreign languages) -OR- Have an ACT of 33 or SAT score of 1450 Must complete a first-year application for admission to UIC by Dec. 1, 2021 Financial Aid Criteria Must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) with the UIC school code (001776) by Dec. 1, 2021 Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the Federal Poverty guidelines . For Chancellor’s Fellows: Total EFC (Expected Family Contribution) from FAFSA may not exceed $30,000 Funding is limited, meeting these eligibility requirements does not guarantee selection for the award. Please note, the award is valid for the starting term in which it was offered. Must have Illinois residency as determined by university policy Must meet all of the State Requirements Must be a 2021 graduating senior from an Illinois high school Ranked 1st in graduating class -OR- Have an unweighted GPA of 3.8 or higher -AND- Must have a total of at least 10 Honors, Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate (HL) in 11th and 12th grades combined in core subject areas (math, science, English/language arts, social sciences/humanities, foreign languages) -OR- Have an ACT of 33 or SAT score of 1450 Must complete a first-year application for admission to UIC by Dec. 1. Must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) with the UIC school code (001776) by Dec. 1 Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the Federal Poverty guidelines Total EFC may not exceed $9,000 Amount: Up to $10,000 Must be enrolled 12+ credits to receive per semester Renewable each academic year, up to 8 consecutive semesters FAFSA must be filed each year 3.0 GPA at end of each Academic Year to renew Must have Illinois residency as determined by university policy Must be a 2019 graduating senior from an Illinois high school With a minimum 3.8 unweighted grade point average And either A score of 1360+ on the SAT (CR+M) or 30+ on the ACT Or be an Illinois high school valedictorians at a high school that ranks Must complete an application for admission to UIC by Nov. 1. Must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) with the UIC school code (001776) by Nov. 1 Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the Federal Poverty guidelines Amount: Up to $10,000 as determined by unmet need Must be enrolled 12+ credits to receive per semester Renewable each academic year, up to 8 consecutive semesters FAFSA must be filed each year 3.0 GPA at end of each Academic Year to renew Must have Illinois residency as determined by university policy Must be a 2019 graduating senior from an Illinois high school With a minimum 3.8 unweighted grade point average And either A score of 1360+ on the SAT (CR+M) or 30+ on the ACT Or be an Illinois high school valedictorians at a high school that ranks Must complete an application for admission to UIC by Nov. 1. Must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) with the UIC school code (001776) by Nov. 1 Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the Federal Poverty guidelines Amount: Full tuition and mandatory fees, minus all other federal and state aid Must be enrolled 12+ credits to receive per semester Renewable each academic year, up to 8 consecutive semesters FAFSA must be filed each year 3.0 GPA at end of each Academic Year to renew The Provost’s Fellows Scholarship has been discontinued starting with the 2021/2022 Award Year. Students previously awarded must maintain a 3.0 GPA at the end of each academic year to retain eligibility For applications for the state programs listed below visit the Illinois Student Assistance Commission . Golden Apple Scholars of Illinois The Golden Apple Scholars of Illinois recruits and prepares bright and talented high school graduates for successful teaching careers. Students may self-nominate or be nominated by a teacher, counselor, principal or other unrelated adult. Students must be nominated on or before November 30 for the upcoming school year. Special Education Teacher Tuition Waiver Program The Special Education Teacher Tuition Waiver (SETTW) encourages Illinois residents to pursue degrees in Special Education Teaching certification programs at state universities. SETTW recipients receive a waiver of tuition and all fees excluding the CTA transit fee and Campus Care Insurance (if applicable). Students who receive the waiver must commit to working as a Special Education teacher in the state of Illinois. If the teaching commitment is not fulfilled, students must repay the entire amount plus interest. Applications are due by March 1 for the upcoming year. Minority Teacher of Illinois The Minority Teacher of Illinois (MTI) Scholarship Program encourages talented students to pursue careers as teachers at nonprofit Illinois preschool, elementary and secondary schools. The program aims to provide minority children with access to a greater number of positive minority role models. Recipients must agree to begin teaching within one year of graduation at a nonprofit Illinois public, private, or parochial preschool, elementary or secondary school that the Illinois State Board of Education has certified as a school with at least 30% minority students. Applications are due March 1 for the upcoming year. To be considered for most university scholarships and awards, incoming undergraduate students need only complete the main UIC admission application; no additional steps are necessary. Students interested in the Honors College must complete an additional application UIC is proud to offer these programs to our non-resident student population. The office of Admissions reviews applications for eligibility for new students. Merit Tuition Award To be eligible for this award, applicants are required to be U.S. citizens or permanent residents who do not qualify for in-state tuition. Students’ grade point average, standardized test scores, and major selection are taken into consideration. Tribal Nation Tuition Award This award, administered to new incoming first-year and transfer students who are members of one or more of the tribal nations recognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, gives recipients the opportunity to study at UIC for the equivalent of in-state tuition. Applicants are evaluated for the award during the admissions process. Lake County, Indiana Tuition Award This award, administered to new incoming first-year and transfer students who are residents of Lake County, Indiana gives recipients the opportunity to study at UIC for the equivalent of in-state tuition. Applicants are evaluated for the award during the admissions process. Additional information regarding these non-resident awards can be found on the UIC Admissions website . Other Institutional Scholarships The University of Illinois at Chicago offers a range of scholarships for incoming, transfer and continuing students. Information is available on the UIC Scholarships UIC SnAP Current undergraduate and professional school students interested in applying for nationally and internationally competitive scholarships, fellowships and external scholarship awards such as the Goldwater, Truman, and Fullbright are encouraged to visit the Office of External Fellowships website . UIC graduate students are encouraged to contact the Fellowships and Financial Aid Coordinator at the Graduate College. For more information related to funding for graduate degree programs or visit the Graduate College website . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Simply provide us with your UIC email address and we will add you to the enewsletter distribution. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Name First Last Email Enter Email Confirm Email Types of Aid Back to main content Grants Federal Grants State Grants Institutional Grants Scholarships Waivers & Assistantships Loans Undergraduate Loans Graduate/Professional Loans PLUS Loans Campus-Based Loans Alternative Loans Stafford Loan Limits Student Employment Study Abroad Veterans Pre-paid Tuition University of Illinois Chicago Quick Links FAFSA my UIC College of Law College of Medicine Office of VA Pop-Up Pantry RESOURCES FinAid.org ISAC National Student Loan Database System (NSLDS) Federal Student Aid on the Web Student Money Management Center Consumer Information Contact Us TOOLS Enrollment Verification Direct Loan Entrance Counseling Direct Loan Master Promissory Note (MPN) Promissory Note for Campus Loans Net Price Calculator Footer Buttons FAQ Contact Us Glossary of Terms Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: money@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>