<DOCNO>2521</DOCNO>
<URL>https://registrar.uic.edu/student_records/enrollment-degree-verification-course-descriptions</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of the Registrar Main Menu Expand Current Students menu Expand Former Students menu Expand Faculty & Staff menu Eyebrow menu Prospective Students AES Staff Textbook Adoption UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of the Registrar Student Records Enrollment, Degree Verification or Course Descriptions Enrollment, Degree Verification or Course Descriptions Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Due to social distancing mandates related to COVID-19, the Office of the Registrar in-person office hours will be Open from 9am-4pm Monday through Friday with limited staff in the office. Do you need to show that you are enrolled, were previously enrolled, or have earned a degree from the University of Illinois Chicago? To request enrollment or degree verifications, follow the steps as they apply to you. The University of Illinois has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC) to provide verification enrollment information for all students in attendance or who have completed a degree beginning in Fall 1982 or later. Current domestic and international students, with an active SSN and mailing address recorded in our system, can obtain a free enrollment verification from the National Student Clearinghouse Please note that verification of enrollment should be available approximately 5 business days after the 10th day of the semester. Please click: Log in to Verify Enrollment National Student Clearinghouse degreeverify@studentclearinhouse.org When more data is required than what can be supplied by the NSC, then please use the below. Please click: CERTIFICATE REQUEST Type of Requests that can be submitted via the link above: Prior Term Verification Enrollment History Certification of Education Form * ( Student must upload the form that was supplied to them) Common Application: Transfer Application Form Degree Letter** (Degree must already be awarded) Completion of Requirement Letter Student must have college send letter to the Registrar office verifying your completion before request can be completed. Diploma Copy for Medical Licensure Certification Student must upload a copy of their diploma $5.00 per copy Course Descriptions $10.00 fee for all academic history $5.00 for each course Please note: For alumni & current students there is a limit of 4 requests per term without a charge being assessed, after the 4th request there will be a $5 charge assessed for each additional form, unless otherwise noted. For request submitted by mail please make check or money order made payable to the University of Illinois Chicago. The Council on Teacher Education (CTE) processes all requests for verification of completed teacher and school service personnel certificate programs.  Send your “verification form*” to the following address. University of Illinois Chicago The Council on Teacher Education (CTE) c/o Coordinator of Certification 1333 S. Halsted St., Suite 205 (m/c 134) Chicago, Illinois 60607-7133 *When making a request for verification without an institutional form, contact the CTE Office at (312) 355-0714 or by email at sryan27@uic.edu . For a letter to verify coursework beyond your degree, please contact Ana Valenta, (312) 355-0575 or by email at agarci5@uic.edu . Visit the CTE website Students, state agencies of Illinois, or employers needing verification for a students’ residency/ fellowship/ internship may submit the request to the Graduate Medical Education Department. You may contact them at 312-996-2933, gmehelp@uic.edu Graduate Medical Education (m/c 675) 820 S. Wood RM 100 Chicago, IL 60612 Written requests can be submitted to the Office of the Registrar via regular postal mail. In the request you would need to submit to us the student’s pertinent information (UIN, first name, last name, and DOB), along with degree awarded, date awarded, dates of enrollment, etc. This request can be addressed to: University of Illinois Chicago Office of the Registrar (m/c 018) Suite 1200 Student Service Building 1200 West Harrison Street Chicago, IL 60607-7161 The turnaround time for completing certifications by mail is approximately 3-5 working days from the date the request is received. Course Descriptions If you wish to submit a paper request please fill out, print, SIGN course description request form . We accept checks, money orders for payment. Recent academic bulletins may be found through the Campus catalog website If the course description supplied in the academic bulletin is not sufficient, please contact the appropriate department for a specific course syllabus. Please refer to the Enrollment& Degree Verification Frequently Asked Questions . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Registration Services Calendars Financial Matters Student Records Transcripts Campus Policies Registration FAQ Student Records Back to main content University of Illinois Chicago UIC Office of the Registrar Current & Former Students UIC Faculty & Staff Contact Us Contact Us! Sitemap Social Media Accounts Contact Office of the Registrar, MC 018 Suite 1200, Student Services Building 1200 West Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60607-7161 https://registrar.uic.edu/contact/ Phone: (312) 996-8600 registration@uic.edu Records Phone: (312) 996-4381 UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>