<DOCNO>2535</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ecc.uic.edu/students/transfer-internship-program</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Engineering Career Center Main Menu Expand Home menu Expand The Spark menu Expand Career Tools menu Expand Students/Alum menu Expand Employers menu Expand Events menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Search Handshake Student Employment Office UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Engineering Career Center Students Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Transfer Students Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Transfer Students Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC offers a unique opportunity to transfer engineering students. Conceived of and supported by the faculty and the dean of the College of Engineering, the Transfer Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) gives incoming fall transfer students the opportunity to serve as paid interns during the summer months, providing they meet certain criteria. Who is Eligible for GPIP? Transfer Engineering and Computer Science students who are admitted into the College of Engineering in the Fall of the academic year. The GPIP application for the 2022-2023 academic year is now available until November 17, 2022. Only new transfer and freshman students starting in the fall are eligible to apply. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Attended UIC Engineering for at least two semesters full‐time and completed at least 20 semester hours of UIC Engineering courses. Complete certain courses that are required for your major . Maintain an overall UIC GPA of at least 3.2. Be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or obtain permission to work legally in the United States by May 1 of the year of your summer internship. Transfer directly into the UIC College of Engineering; unfortunately intercollege transfer students are not eligible. If a transfer student participates in an off-campus internship, which they secured on their own, they will not be placed by GPIP. Complete mandatory questionnaires as well as deadlines that will occur throughout the academic year(s). This involves responding to emails from GPIP administrators in a timely fashion. Students are required to complete courses in their major prior to being placed in a GPIP internship. For many students this will take more than one full academic year Required courses by major to qualify for guaranteed internship Transfer students must apply their very first semester in the College of Engineering. This is the only opportunity to join the GPIP program. Students will be notified by email when the GPIP program is made available to join. Transfer students who qualify are provided a placement the summer prior to their expected graduation date. Placements occur on campus in research labs or at other UIC entities. If a transfer student participates in an off-campus internship, which they secured on their own, they will not be placed by GPIP. Transfer students who are placed in UIC research labs or other entities on campus will earn $15/hour. GPIP interns may work total of 256 hours during the course of their internship. Students cannot accrue overtime, so, you cannot work more than 8 hours in one day, or more than 40 hours in one week. It is up to the student and professor/supervisor to track the total number of hours worked and not exceed 256 for the summer. Still have questions about GPIP for Transfer students? Please contact: Rose Coppola-Conroy, Director of the Engineering Career Center Office: SEO 800 rcconroy@uic.edu Students/Alum Back to main content Search Handshake Employment Outcomes International Students Identity x Work Student Organizations UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections Freshman Internship Program (GPIP) Transfer Internship Program (GPIP) Services for Alumni Need support for your well being? University of Illinois Chicago Contact 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-8374 rcconroy@uic.edu Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>