<DOCNO>2564</DOCNO>
<URL>https://ecc.uic.edu/students/freshman-internship-program</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Engineering Career Center Main Menu Expand Home menu Expand The Spark menu Expand Career Tools menu Expand Students/Alum menu Expand Employers menu Expand Events menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Search Handshake Student Employment Office UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Engineering Career Center Students Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Freshman Students Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Freshman Students Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC offers a unique opportunity to freshman engineering students. Conceived of and supported by the faculty and the dean of the College of Engineering, the Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) gives incoming fall freshman students the opportunity to serve as paid interns during the summer months, providing they meet certain criteria by the end of their first year of study. The GPIP application will be available for the 2022-2023 academic year in fall 2022. Only new transfer and freshman students starting in the fall are eligible to apply. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link GPIP Eligibility Requirements Maintain a GPA of 3.2 or greater for your first AND second semesters at UIC. Complete at least 26 UIC semester hours during your freshman year. Complete Math 180 (Calculus I) and Math 181 (Calculus II) with a B or  higher by the end of freshmen year. Students with AP credit for Calculus I and II must have that documentation on file with the College of Engineering. Note: Pre-calculus does not fulfill this requirement. Complete at least two additional program-specified 100 level Engineering courses with a B or higher. Required courses by major. Direct acceptance into the College of Engineering and registration as a full-time student for Fall. Commit to return to the UIC College of Engineering for the academic year or sophomore year Be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or obtain permission to work legally in the United States. If a student participates in an off-campus internship, which they secured on their own, they will not be placed by GPIP. Complete mandatory questionnaires as well as deadlines that will occur throughout the academic year. This includes responding to emails from GPIP administrators in a timely fashion. The College of Engineering will place students who fulfill the requirements into on-campus research labs or other entities within UIC. Freshmen placed in UIC research labs will be paid $14/hour. GPIP interns may work total of 256 hours during the course of their internship. Students cannot accrue overtime, so, you cannot work more than 8 hours in one day, or more than 40 hours in one week. It is up to the student and professor/supervisor to track the total number of hours worked and not exceed 256 for the summer. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link GPIP FAQs Complete at least 26 UIC semester hours during your freshman year. 2 Math courses Complete Math 180 (Calculus I) and Math 181 (Calculus II) with a B or higher by the end of freshman year. Note: Pre-calculus does not fulfill this requirement. 2 program-specified (your major) 100 level Engineering courses Required courses by major You need a minimum 3.2 GPA for the Fall semester AND the Spring semester. A cumulative of 3.2 does not qualify you if you were under a 3.2 in either semester. You need a minimum of a B for Calculus 1 & 2. You need a minimum of a B for the required courses in your major. Required courses by major Students who fulfill the program requirements will earn a place in an internship in a UIC research laboratory, or another entity on-campus. If students prefer to do an off-campus internship at a company, they will be required to apply for those internships on their own. Opportunities to apply for off-campus internships will occur through annual career fairs, posted on Handshake, and other events with the Engineering Career Center. Students are also encouraged to apply for internships that they learn about on their own through online searches and networking. Off-campus internships WILL NOT be guaranteed. If a student does secure an off-campus internship, they will not be placed in an internship through the GPIP program If you decide to take classes over the summer you will have to arrange your schedule with your internship supervisor. Past GPIP participants found that it was easier to take summer classes at UIC while completing an on-campus internship. If you obtain an off-campus internship, we strongly recommend not taking summer classes as most off-campus supervisors will largely expect their summer interns to work full-time hours. GPIP interns may work total of 256 hours during the course of their internship. Students cannot accrue overtime, so, you cannot work more than 8 hours in one day, or more than 40 hours in one week. It is up to the student and professor/supervisor to track the total number of hours worked and not exceed 256 for the summer. On-campus internships at UIC will start in mid- to late-June. Students/Alum Back to main content Search Handshake Employment Outcomes International Students Identity x Work Student Organizations UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections Freshman Internship Program (GPIP) Transfer Internship Program (GPIP) Services for Alumni Need support for your well being? University of Illinois Chicago Contact 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-8374 rcconroy@uic.edu Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>