<DOCNO>258</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/alumnus-michael-e-papka-joins-uic-computer-science</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Alumnus Michael E. Papka joins UIC computer science Andrea Poet | Posted on October 11, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Michael E. Papka joined UIC’s computer science department as a professor this fall, where he brings years of interdisciplinary research and teaching experience to the university. He will also join the university’s Electronic Visualization Laboratory . Papka’s research interests include high-performance computing, and large-scale data analysis and visualization. His current efforts focus on edge-computing-enabled smart cities, visualizing large datasets, and the use of new technologies to identify opportunities for scientific discovery. Papka holds a joint appointment with Argonne National Laboratory , where he works as a senior scientist, and serves as deputy associate laboratory director for Computing, Environment, and Life Sciences Argonne Leadership Computing Facility “UIC helped prepare me to work on real-world problems with interdisciplinary teams,” said Papka. “By returning to UIC, I hope to do the same for a new generation of scientists.” Before joining UIC, Papka was a Presidential Research, Scholarship, and Artistry professor of computer science at Northern Illinois University (NIU), where he founded the Data, Devices, and Interaction Laboratory, a joint research lab between NIU’s School of Art and Design and Department of Computer Science. Papka received his bachelor’s degree in physics from NIU, a master’s degree in electrical engineering and computer science from UIC, and MS and PhD degrees in computer science from the University of Chicago. In addition to his past roles at NIU, he has held various joint positions at the University of Chicago and at Illinois Tech. Papka is a senior member of the Association for Computing Machinery and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He sits on the advisory boards of Loyola University Chicago’s computer science program and Harvard University’s Institute for Applied Computational Science. He’s received honors including the Secretary of Energy Achievement Award (High-Performance Computing Resource Team) in 2021, Excellence in Teaching awards from NIU in 2016 and 2020, the UIC Alumni Association’s City Partner Award in 2014, and an R&D 100 Award in 2007. Most recently, Papka was recognized with the 2022 Argonne Board of Governors’ Pinnacle of Education Award for his contributions to science education outreach activities. Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>