<DOCNO>2593</DOCNO>
<URL>https://honors.uic.edu/resources/advising</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Honors College Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Admissions menu Expand Academics menu Expand Involvement menu Expand Resources menu Expand Faculty & Fellows menu Eyebrow menu Giving Contact Us HARS Login UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Honors College Resources Advising Advising Online Advising Schedule Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link How To Schedule an Appointment To schedule an appointment with their Honors Advisor, students can log on to my.uic.edu hcollege@uic.edu Honors Advisors are distinct from Faculty Fellows . Students can find the name and contact information for their assigned Honors Advisor or Faculty Fellow in the Honors Activity Reporting System (HARS) . About Us A distinctive feature of the Honors College is the availability of personalized advising. During summer orientation, all entering first-year students are advised by the advising staff of their degree-granting colleges and by the advising staff of the Honors College. All new students are required to meet with their Honors College advisor. Students admitted as Transfer or Continuing students must meet with their advisor in their first semester. First-year students are required to meet with their assigned Honors College advisor each semester. These meetings are designed to allow the student and advisor to discuss Honors course requirements, general course selection, and strategies for success. Upon completion of the first year, students are strongly urged to continue to meet regularly with their Honors College advisor. Online Advising Online advising is available using a variety of virtual meeting platforms. Please schedule an appointment with your advisor as you normally would using iAdvise, located in your my.uic.edu Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Honors College Advisors are available year round to address questions and concerns as well as simply build a strong advisor/advisee relationship. Honors College Advisors are on hand to discuss a variety of topics with students including, but not limited to: Planning the overall Honors College Experience How to complete the Honors College curriculum Progress and standing in the Honors College Academic resources, including tutoring Getting started with undergraduate research Major exploration and clarifying career goals Campus involvement and student organizations Summer opportunities (e.g. internships, courses, study abroad, research, etc.) Honors Capstone project Graduate/Professional school preparation Well-being and self-care Resources Back to main content Advising Forms Tutoring Graduate Schools and Careers Fellows Scholarships Research and Travel Grants University of Illinois Chicago Admissions First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Continuing Applicants Scholarships for Incoming First-Year Students Scholarships for Incoming Transfer Students Current Students HARS Login Scholarships Current Fellows Tutoring Graduation Information Other Resources Office of External Fellowships Office of Undergraduate Research UIC SnAP Study Abroad Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Career Services Miscellaneous Information for Alumni Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 828 South Halsted Street, 102 Burnham Hall, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2260 Fax: (312) 413-1266 hcollege@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>