<DOCNO>2598</DOCNO>
<URL>https://honors.uic.edu/involvement/cshp</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Honors College Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Admissions menu Expand Academics menu Expand Involvement menu Expand Resources menu Expand Faculty & Fellows menu Eyebrow menu Giving Contact Us HARS Login UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Honors College Involvement Chicago Signature Honors Program (CSHP) Chicago Signature Honors Program (CSHP) Chicago Signature Honors Programming Brandon Ishikata In the past, students have enjoyed performances at the Lyric Opera, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Steppenwolf, the Goethe Institute, Prop Theatre, the Athenaeum Theatre, the Mercury Theatre, UIC Theatre, the Hellenic Museum, the National Museum of Mexican Art, Christkindlmarket, Chinatown, and Little Village, and often are able to speak with players, directors and artists — all at no cost to the students. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Attendance to Chicago Signature Honors Programming events is open to all students currently enrolled in the Honors College at the University of Illinois Chicago.  Each event listing has an RSVP link (below). By RSVP’ing, you are committing to going to the event sponsored through Honors College and agreeing to abide by the safety protocols listed for each event. Upon completion of your RSVP you will receive a confirmation from the system letting you know that you have either A) registered successfully or B) have been placed on a waitlist, in the event that the event has reached capacity. Those who registered successfully will receive an email at least 48 hours prior to the outing with critical information regarding directions, required safety guidelines, travel suggestions, and information on how to claim your ticket. Those who have been wait-listed should keep an eye on their email/phone the days leading up to and day of the event, in case there are cancellations, as the wait-list will be contacted in the order of registration to claim extra tickets. As college funds are allocated for and spent on this educational program based on RSVP counts, it is your responsibility to show up to the event for which you signed up. If, for any reason, you are unable to attend an event after registering, it is your responsibility to contact the program administrators, as soon as possible (preferably via cshp@uic.edu, no later than 8am the day of the event [or as soon as you’re able in emergency circumstances]) so that your ticket may be given to the next person on the wait-list. Students who fail to attend an event for which they have RSVP’d without timely/adequate communication, will receive a formal request to reimburse the Honors College for the cost of the unused ticket, which could have instead been used to sponsor another student’s experience. All questions and concerns should be directed to cshp@uic.edu . Involvement Back to main content Student Organizations Student Publications Honors Ambassadors Ambassadors Welcome Letters Service Opportunities Honors Tutoring Honors Housing Honors Societies Honors College Events Convocation Chicago Signature Honors Program (CSHP) University of Illinois Chicago Admissions First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Continuing Applicants Scholarships for Incoming First-Year Students Scholarships for Incoming Transfer Students Current Students HARS Login Scholarships Current Fellows Tutoring Graduation Information Other Resources Office of External Fellowships Office of Undergraduate Research UIC SnAP Study Abroad Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Career Services Miscellaneous Information for Alumni Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 828 South Halsted Street, 102 Burnham Hall, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2260 Fax: (312) 413-1266 hcollege@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>