<DOCNO>2599</DOCNO>
<URL>https://honors.uic.edu/resources/scholarships</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Honors College Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Admissions menu Expand Academics menu Expand Involvement menu Expand Resources menu Expand Faculty & Fellows menu Eyebrow menu Giving Contact Us HARS Login UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Honors College Resources Scholarships Scholarships Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Honors College offers a limited number of scholarships for incoming first-year students. All Honors College scholarships are based on merit, while some are also based on need, as determined by FAFSA. These scholarships are awarded to applicants based on the strength of the admissions application. No additional scholarship application must be completed to be considered. Admission to the Honors College does not guarantee a scholarship. Kerr Scholarship Full In-State tuition and fees Renewable up to four years Honors College Academic Excellence Award $8,000 yearly Renewable up to four years Only applicable to tuition Honors College Academic Distinction Award $5,000 yearly Renewable up to four years Only applicable to tuition Honors College Academic Scholars Award $3,000 yearly Renewable up to four years Only applicable to tuition President’s Award Program Honors Scholarship Tuition, plus room and board Renewable up to four years Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship Each fall and spring the Honors College awards the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship, a one-time, one-semester tuition waiver, to new Honors College transfer students. New transfer students to the college who are members of Phi Theta Kappa, the community college honor society and have a minimum of a 3.5 transfer GPA are eligible to apply. This scholarship is competitive and not all eligible students will receive an award. Students must be enrolled in at least 12 credit hours at UIC. The deadline to apply is typically in November for Spring applicants, and June for Fall applicants. Applications are available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com Transfer Merit Tuition Award The UIC Transfer Merit Tuition Awards are given on a competitive basis to new transfer students each fall and spring. Applicants must be enrolled in a baccalaureate degree program, have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25 on a minimum of 45 transfer credits, and be enrolled for at least 12 credit hours in the semester for which the student applied. This scholarship is competitive and not all eligible students will receive an award. The deadline to apply is typically in November for Spring applicants, and June for Fall applicants. Applications are available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com Honors Council Awards The Honors Council, the College executive committee, recognizes outstanding students each year. These awards of $500 are made to students nominated by faculty on the basis of their excellence in Honors Activities from that academic year. John Curtis Johnson Award The John Curtis Johnson award is named for former Associate Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Curt Johnson, a longtime friend and supporter of the Honors College. The award of $500 is given each Spring to one Honors College freshman who has excelled in his or her Honors College core. Students are nominated by the Honors Core faculty. Honors College Scholarships for Study Abroad The Honors College offers scholarships to support students studying abroad in amounts ranging from $500 to $2,500. To be eligible to apply for the scholarship, students must apply to a study abroad program endorsed by the UIC Campus and be a member of the Honors College in good standing. A cumulative UIC grade point average of 3.40 upon application for the scholarships is required, as is a completed application (which includes responses to both short-answer questions in the SnAP General Application). Students in programs traveling in the Summer or Fall semester apply for the scholarship in the Spring semester prior to their travels, and students in programs traveling in the Spring semester apply for the scholarship in the Fall semester prior to their travels. The deadline to apply is typically mid-semester, and aligns with the Study Abroad application deadline. The application is available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com Honors College Tuition Award At this time, we do not possess funding in order to offer this award for the Spring 2021 term.  If funding becomes available, students will be notified. Each semester, Honors College students in good standing are eligible to compete for a limited number of tuition awards offered by the Honors College. Students are selected for these awards, which may cover up to full in-state tuition and differential (but not fees or other expenses), based on a combination of merit and need. (Students who are assessed out-of-state or international tuition are eligible to apply, but do be aware that the maximum award amount is the value of in-state tuition differential for the semester in which you are applying.) Please note that these awards are highly competitive. The Tuition Award application deadline is typically at the end of the spring semester for the following academic year. The application is available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com . The specific deadline and more information about the award can be found there. Honors College Dean’s Emergency Fund The Honors College Dean’s Emergency Fund is intended to help meet the financial needs (tuition, fees, books, housing) of Honors College students who encounter an emergency situation or one-time, unusual, or unforeseen expenses during their degree program that prevent them from continuing their studies at UIC. Situations that might trigger such an emergency need include, but are not limited to, such events as: Medical, dental, or mental health emergencies Major accidents and events such as fire and natural disasters Home foreclosure or other loss of a domicile Unexpected loss of income Students who find themselves in such situations should apply for funds, generally up to $2,000, from the Dean’s Emergency Fund by submitting an application and supporting documentation. Please note that funds from the Dean’s Emergency fund do not replace regular scholarship dollars, and students are encouraged to apply for all other possible sources of money. Funds are available on a first-come-first-served basis. Preference will be given to juniors and seniors. Students can only receive funding through the Dean’s Emergency Fund for two semesters during their Honors College career. The Dean’s Emergency Fund Applications smccloud@uic.edu . Sally and Kevin Desouza Family Scholarship The Sally and Kevin Desouza Family Scholarship is awarded each Spring to a full-time student in the Honors College pursuing a degree in the College of Business Administration. The recipient will receive $1,000 and must be in good standing with the Honors College in the semester in which the award is offered. The recipient shall demonstrate high academic achievement, and shall be actively involved in the campus community in ways that make a contribution to the quality of campus life. International students are strongly encouraged to apply. uic.academicworks.com . The specific deadline and more information about the award can be found there. Mark A. Wyatt Memorial Scholarship The Mark A. Wyatt Memorial Scholarship is awarded each Spring to an outstanding Honors College student with at least junior standing majoring in Biological Sciences, Biochemistry or Neuroscience and planning to go to medical school. This $500 award is based on academic excellence, research, and leadership. Preference is given to continuing students (not graduating) who have demonstrated leadership and a passion for research. The Wyatt Scholarship is a memorial to Mark Wyatt, a pre-med Biological Sciences and Honors College junior who exemplified academic excellence and leadership. After his death in 1990, his fellow students led the effort to establish this scholarship in his name. The application is available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com . The specific deadline and more information about the award can be found there. Sister Dorothy Drobis Award The Sister Dorothy Drobis Award is awarded each Spring to an outstanding student with at least junior or senior standing majoring in education who intends to teach in an urban environment. Applicants must be members of the Honors College. The award is based on academic excellence and leadership, and the winner receives $1,000. The Drobis Award is made each year in recognition of Sister Dorothy Drobis and her long career in elementary education in Chicago.  The application is available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com . The specific deadline and more information about the award can be found there. Honors College Undergraduate Research Grants The Honors College research grants are given each semester to support excellent undergraduate research by Honors College students, including, but not limited to, Honors Capstone projects. Applications typically open at the start of each semester and the deadline to apply is generally the Friday of Week 4 at 5:00pm. Deadline for Spring 2021 is Friday, February 12th . Please consult the Honors College Announcements for the specific deadline. Fundable Activities/Expenses: Students may request money to fund research expenditures for current or planned research projects, whether scientific or humanities studies. These awards are especially appropriate for supporting Honors Capstone activities, but can support other types of undergraduate research as well. Priority will be given to proposals requesting funds for materials used in research. Student stipends will not be supported. No individual award will exceed $1,000 and most will be less. Decisions regarding the number and dollar amount of individual awards shall be guided by the principle of encouraging high-quality research for the largest number of undergraduates. Previous research awards received from the Honors College will also be taken into account. Each research proposal will be evaluated on the following criteria: (a) significance and importance of the project; (b) demonstrated understanding of research protocol; and (c) reasonableness of the proposed budget. Eligibility: Applicants must be current UIC Honors College students in good standing with the Honors College Funds are only awarded for ongoing work. Students may not apply for reimbursements towards research that was conducted in the past, but is not ongoing in the semester in which they apply. Applicants must remain current students for the duration of the funding period (i.e., applicants may not apply for funding for a project they will undertake after they graduate from UIC/the Honors College). Selected students must submit a 1-page report at the end of the semester in which they receive funding documenting their use of the funds. Additional reporting requirements may be added at the discretion of the Committee. Application: Please carefully review the proposal guidelines budget form , (2) a letter of recommendation from the faculty member supervising your research project (which must be submitted by the deadline), and (3) an application If you have applied in the past and are reapplying, your application MUST be updated to reflect the progress made in your research. Duplicate or near-identical applications will be declined. Applications are accepted once per semester via an online form. Please watch the Honors College Announcements in the first week of the semester for a link to the application form. Applications must be complete–including letters of recommendation–by the stated deadline in order to be considered. Honors College Undergraduate Conference Travel Grants Note: The Honors College offers undergraduate grants-in-aid for travel to professional meetings for presentations/participation including, but not limited to, Honors Capstone projects. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis, but decisions will generally be made at minimum 4 weeks after the applications are received. Duplicate and near-identical applications are not accepted. Please see below for more detailed information. Fundable Activities/Expenses: Students may request money to fund travel to attend and/or present their research at professional meetings (e.g., registration, flight, hotel) and presentation materials (e.g., poster preparation costs). Food/per diem is not No individual award will exceed $500 and most will be less. The maximum allowable cost for posters is $75.00. Decisions regarding the number and dollar amount of individual awards shall be guided by the principle of encouraging the largest number of undergraduates to benefit from such participation. Priority will be given to students presenting their own original work, but students attending conferences, meetings or events without presenting a paper, or traveling to do research in their area of study, may also apply for funding. Previous travel awards received from the Honors College will also be taken into account. Each proposal will be evaluated according to the following criteria: the merit of the proposal’s likely impact on the student’s scholarly and/or professional development; and reasonableness of the proposed budget. Eligibility: Applicants must be current UIC Honors College students Graduating seniors may summer only not Graduating seniors must apply no later than the first week of April Funds are only awarded for conference travel that occurs after the application is submitted; the grant will not refund students/departments for past travel. Selected students must submit a 2-page report and photo at the end of the semester in which they receive funding documenting their use of the funds, and include a photo of themselves at the conference. Additional reporting requirements may be added at the discretion of the Committee. Application: A completed application includes: (1) an application , (2) a completed budget form , and (3) a letter of recommendation from the faculty member supervising the research being presented (or, if you are not presenting, the faculty mentor supporting your application) sent to hcollege@uic.edu. Be sure to include confirmation that your proposal was submitted/accepted in addition to other budget documents. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Please submit completed applications, compiled into a single PDF or Word document , to hcollege@uic.edu with the subject line “YourLastName Travel Grant Application.” Donald and Leah Riddle Prize The Donald and Leah Riddle Prize is awarded each year at Commencement to an outstanding graduating senior regardless of major field. The award is based on academic excellence and leadership. The winner receives a bronze medallion and a $1,000 cash prize. The Riddle Prize is made each year in recognition of the former UIC Chancellor Donald Riddle and his wife Leah and honors the Riddles’ contribution to the campus. The application deadline is typically late March/early April each year. The application is available through UIC SnAP at uic.academicworks.com College Awards Many individual colleges recognize outstanding undergraduates in their discipline through various scholarships and awards. Colleges typically offer scholarships and awards in the Spring semester. Departmental Awards Many individual departments recognize outstanding undergraduates in their discipline through various scholarships and awards. Some departments announce their award winners during convocation ceremonies. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Office of Scholarships assists current UIC undergraduate and professional students in searching and applying for campus scholarship opportunities. This office can also assist with external opportunities for undergraduate and professional tuition and housing scholarships, but nationally competitive scholarships and fellowships are managed by the Office of External Fellowships. Lincoln Academy Student Laureate Recognition of an outstanding senior by the Lincoln Academy of Illinois including $1000 award. Students must be nominated and can self-nominate during their senior year. Deadline: Early October Website: https://thelincolnacademyofillinois.org/students-2/ SAUIC For freshmen, sophomores and juniors enrolled at UIC, scholarships ranging from $500-$5000. Deadline: late Spring. Website: http://www.uic.edu/depts/oaa/scholar/resources.htm S.E.E., TCF Bank and other scholarships For UIC students with at least 12-40 hours, ranging from $1000 to $5000 toward continued undergraduate study. Deadline: March Website: https://scholarships.uic.edu/ Martin Luther King Jr. Scholarship For sophomores, juniors and graduate students in any major, $2000 for undergraduates, or $5000 for graduates toward continuing studies. Deadline: March Website: http://vcsa.uic.edu/scholarships/dr-martin-scholarship/ SnAP is UIC’s internal scholarship information system. If you are a UIC student, you can log in Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link A wide range of scholarship opportunities are available to Honors College students, including external scholarships and fellowships. The Office of External Fellowships assists current UIC undergraduate and professional school students in searching and applying for nationally competitive scholarships, fellowships and external scholarship awards. Deadlines for the awards run throughout the academic year. Preparing a competitive application requires students to begin well in advance of the deadline. In particular, the Rhodes, Marshall, Mitchell, Fulbright and Gates Cambridge have early fall deadlines and preparation to apply should begin the previous spring. While the financial assistance offered by these scholarships is the most obvious reward, the process of applying also offers great benefits such as helping candidates develop as thinkers, writers and speakers in ways that are advantageous to their professional and personal development and building strong ties with faculty and staff who support your application. Please note that UIC’s campus deadlines are earlier — often months earlier — than the foundations’ deadlines, so interested applicants should prepare well in advance. Critical Languages Scholarship For overseas summer intensive study of critical languages abroad. Funding includes airfare and housing. Locations of summer programs vary. Eligibility : U.S. citizen; undergraduates, professional and graduate students, must have completed a full year of college by the start of the program. Deadline : November. Website : http://www.clscholarship.org/ Fulbright UK Summer Institute Three to four-week programs for U.S undergraduate students, who have no or very little travel experience outside North America. Participants can explore the culture, heritage, and history of the UK while experiencing higher education at a UK university. Eligibility : Be a US citizen and possess a US passport, have at least two years of undergraduate study remaining after the Institute finishes. Deadline : Late November. Website : http://www.fulbright.org.uk/going-to-the-uk/uk-summer-institutes Gilman Scholarship For Pell Grant recipients who are planning to study abroad, up to $2500-$8000 in support of study abroad for summer, fall, spring or full year. Eligibility : U.S. citizen; undergraduates. Deadlines : Varies; typically one semester before travel. Website : https://www.iie.org/gilman Goldwater Scholarship For students with research experience and intent on research careers in math, science or engineering, $7500 toward remaining undergraduate years. Requires UIC nomination Eligibility : U.S. citizen, permanent resident; sophomores & juniors. Deadline for UIC nomination : Mid-November. Website : https://goldwater.scholarsapply.org/ Hispanic Scholarship Fund For Hispanic students; one main award and several smaller ones. Eligibility : U.S. citizen, permanent resident; undergraduate and graduate students. Deadline for general scholarship : December 15. Website : https://www.hsf.net/scholarship Rangel International Affairs Graduate Fellowship Summer Enrichment Program Provides undergraduates with the opportunity to enhance their skills, knowledge, and understanding of U.S. foreign policy during a six-week summer program at Howard University. Eligibility : U.S. citizen, must be full-time undergraduate students with at least sophomore status on the date of the application deadline. Deadline : Mid-September. Website : https://www.rangelprogram.org/summer-enrichment-program/ Truman Scholarship For juniors intent on careers in public service at a leadership level, $30,000 toward graduate or professional school study. Requires UIC nomination Eligibility : U.S. citizens; juniors in their third year. Deadline for UIC nomination : Mid-November. Website : https://www.truman.gov/ Udall Scholarship For students planning careers related to environmental issues, $7000 toward remaining undergraduate years. Requires UIC nomination Eligibility : U.S. citizen, permanent resident; sophomores, or juniors. Deadline for UIC nomination : Early February. Website : https://www.udall.gov/ourprograms/scholarship/scholarship.aspx Interested in finding out more? Contact OEF: https://oef.uic.edu/about/contact-us/ Carnegie Endowment Junior Fellows Program For students interested in a global affairs research internship at the Carnegie Institute. Requires UIC nomination Eligibility : Must be eligible to work in U.S.; seniors or recent graduates. Deadline for UIC nomination : Early December. Website : https://carnegieendowment.org/about/?fa=jrFellows Ford Foundation Pre-Doctoral Fellowships For underrepresented students pursuing the PhD graduate funding for up to 3 years. Eligibility : U.S. citizens, permanent residents, DACA holders; seniors or recent graduates. Deadline : Mid-November. Website : http://sites.nationalacademies.org/pga/fordfellowships/ Fulbright Student Award For students in all majors, the opportunity to teach English or do research abroad after receiving your bachelor’s degree. Research or study in over 140 countries; Teaching English in over 65 countries. Applying through UIC requires an evaluation process. Eligibility : U.S. citizen; senior, graduate or alumni. UIC deadline : Early September. Website : https://us.fulbrightonline.org/ National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship For students planning graduate study in the sciences, math, engineering and most social sciences. Funding for 3 years of graduate study. Eligibility : U.S. citizens or permanent residents; seniors or not beyond 1st year of graduate study. Deadline : Early November. Website : http://www.nsfgrfp.org/ Phi Kappa Phi Graduate Fellowship For an outstanding Phi Kappa Phi member nominated by the UIC chapter; $5000 toward graduate/professional study. Requires UIC Phi Kappa Phi nomination Eligibility : Member of Phi Kappa Phi; seniors. UIC deadline : Mid-March. Website : https://www.phikappaphi.org/grants-awards/fellowship Pickering International Affairs Summer Enrichment Programs For students considering careers in International Affairs. Providing summer learning experiences in Washington DC. Eligibility : U.S. citizens; grad students, seniors, or alumni, seeking admission to a two-year, full-time, on-campus, master’s degree program at a U.S.-based graduate institution. Deadline : Mid-September. Soros Fellowship Provides two years of funding for graduate/professional studies. Open to students who qualify as a “New American”: e.g. hold a Green Card, or be a naturalized citizen, or be the child of immigrant parents, immigrants, or children of immigrants, regardless of legal status. Eligibility : Seniors, and 1st and 2nd-year graduate/professional students. Deadline : Mid-September. Website : https://www.pdsoros.org/ Interested in finding out more? Contact OEF: https://oef.uic.edu/about/contact-us/ Churchhill Scholarship Provides full tuition plus living stipend, travel allowance, and potential additional research funding toward one year of graduate study in the physical or natural sciences, engineering, or mathematics at Churchill College, University of Cambridge. Eligibility : Be a U.S citizen. At the final deadline, be a current senior or recent graduate between the ages of 19 and 26. Deadline : September. Website : https://www.churchillscholarship.org/ Gates Cambridge Scholarships For outstanding students with a 3.7 GPA or higher, research, service, leadership and vision for making a difference; offers graduate study at Cambridge University for 1-4 years. UIC starts to prepare candidates in the spring for fall deadlines. Eligibility : Any country but the United Kingdom (different deadline for non-U.S. citizens; seniors or recent graduates. UIC Deadline : Mid-April. Website : https://www.gatescambridge.org/apply/ Marshall Scholarships For outstanding students with a 3.7 GPA or higher, research, service, leadership and vision for making a difference; offers graduate study at any British university for 1-2 years. UIC starts to prepare candidates in the spring for fall deadlines. Eligibility : U.S. citizens; seniors or recent graduates. UIC Deadline : Mid-April. Website : http://www.marshallscholarship.org/ Mitchell Scholarships For outstanding students with a 3.7 GPA or higher, research, service, leadership and vision for making a difference; offers graduate study at any of the 9 universities in Ireland for one year. UIC starts to prepare candidates in the spring for fall deadlines. Eligibility : U.S. citizens; seniors or recent graduates. UIC Deadline : Mid-April. Website : https://www.us-irelandalliance.org/mitchellscholarship Rhodes Scholarships (U.S.) For outstanding students with a 3.7 GPA or higher, research, service, leadership and vision for making a difference; offers graduate study at Oxford University for 1-2 years. UIC starts to prepare candidates in the spring for fall deadlines. Eligibility : U.S. citizens; seniors or recent graduates (*NOTE: As of 2018, citizens of all nations ). UIC Deadline : July 1st. Website : http://www.rhodesscholar.org/ Interested in finding out more? Contact OEF: https://oef.uic.edu/about/contact-us/ Questions? You may contact the Office of External Fellowships OEF Phone : (312) 355-3380 Email : oef@uic.edu Website: https://oef.uic.edu/ Location : 601 S. Morgan St., 800 UH, Chicago IL 60607-7128 Social Media : Facebook , Twitter Mailing List: Subscribe Interested? Tell OEF Student Information Form here. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Facebook icon OEF Facebook Twitter icon OEF Twitter Envelope icon OEF E-Mail Newsletter icon Mailing List Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Honors Alumna recipient of the State Department Critical Language Scholarship Posted on July 26, 2021 John Curtis Johnson Award recipient announced Posted on May 25, 2021 Honors Council award recipients named Posted on May 20, 2021 Honors Student wins departmental Joshua Terry Award Posted on May 14, 2021 Honors Student recipient of prestigious Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship Posted on April 26, 2021 Honors Student recipient of annual Sister Dorothy Drobis Award Posted on April 16, 2021 Honors Student receives Sally and Kevin Desouza Family Scholarship Posted on April 16, 2021 PAP Honors Student Heading to MIT Posted on May 12, 2020 UIC Honors Student selected for a Gates-Cambridge Scholarship Posted on April 17, 2020 UIC Honors student receives Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship Posted on April 17, 2020 Resources Back to main content Advising Forms Tutoring Graduate Schools and Careers Fellows Scholarships Research and Travel Grants University of Illinois Chicago Admissions First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Continuing Applicants Scholarships for Incoming First-Year Students Scholarships for Incoming Transfer Students Current Students HARS Login Scholarships Current Fellows Tutoring Graduation Information Other Resources Office of External Fellowships Office of Undergraduate Research UIC SnAP Study Abroad Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Career Services Miscellaneous Information for Alumni Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 828 South Halsted Street, 102 Burnham Hall, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2260 Fax: (312) 413-1266 hcollege@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>