<DOCNO>2602</DOCNO>
<URL>https://honors.uic.edu/convocation</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Honors College Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Admissions menu Expand Academics menu Expand Involvement menu Expand Resources menu Expand Faculty & Fellows menu Eyebrow menu Giving Contact Us HARS Login UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Honors College Involvement Honors College Events Fall Graduation Celebration Fall Graduation Celebration Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Honors College Graduation Celebration recognizes the Fall 2022 Honors College Graduates . The Honors College will host an Graduation Celebration to recognize the accomplishments of this semester’s graduates.  In addition, each Honors College graduate will receive a gold Honors stole and a certificate of Honors College membership as a visible symbol of accomplishment. Students who have graduated in August 2022 or will graduate in December 2022 are invited to participate in this ceremony, as well as any campus commencement events. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Honors College will host a celebration for our graduating students on Friday, December 2 from 3:30 pm to 5:00 pm in the Cardinal Room, Student Center East.  You will receive your Honors gold stole and certificate at the celebration. If you are unable to attend the Honors College, you can pick up your gold stole from the Honors College reception desk during normal business hours during Final Exam week, December 5 throught December 9. Please complete and submit the following information by NOVEMBER 15, 2022. You must submit this form to receive your Honors College stole. Please submit your GRADUATION DECLARATION. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link During the celebration, each graduate will be recognized with a personalized Powerpoint slide, featuring your name, degree information, capstone, and accomplishments. In addition, graduates will be able to provide a digital photo and a personal message that will be included on the slide. Additional information is included in the graduation declaration form . The program will be live-streamed starting at 4:00 pm to allow guests to share in our pride for our graduate’s accomplishments. Caps and gowns are not required for your photo submission , but they are available for purchase.  Regalia can be ordered directly from the Josten’s website Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Honors College Gold Stole is a visible symbol of your accomplishment as a graduate of the Honors College.  Students are invited to wear this with all other graduation regalia. You will be able to pick up your gold stole at the Honors College Graduation Celebration on December 2.  If you are unable to attend the event,  you can pick up your gold stole from the Honors College reception desk during normal business hours from December 5 through December 9 (Final Exam week). In order to receive your gold stole, you must submit a graduation declaration and be on track to complete the Honors College requirements. TO RECEIVE YOUR GOLD STOLE: Please submit your GRADUATION DECLARATION. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Please visit the UIC Commencement website Questions? Please contact the Honors College at hcollege@uic.edu . Involvement Back to main content Student Organizations Student Publications Honors Ambassadors Ambassadors Welcome Letters Service Opportunities Honors Tutoring Honors Housing Honors Societies Honors College Events Convocation Chicago Signature Honors Program (CSHP) University of Illinois Chicago Admissions First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Continuing Applicants Scholarships for Incoming First-Year Students Scholarships for Incoming Transfer Students Current Students HARS Login Scholarships Current Fellows Tutoring Graduation Information Other Resources Office of External Fellowships Office of Undergraduate Research UIC SnAP Study Abroad Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Career Services Miscellaneous Information for Alumni Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 828 South Halsted Street, 102 Burnham Hall, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2260 Fax: (312) 413-1266 hcollege@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>