<DOCNO>261</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/philip-s-yu-receives-test-of-time-award</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Philip S. Yu receives Test of Time Award Andrea Poet | Posted on October 11, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Distinguished and Wexler Chair Professor Philip S. Yu and his coauthors received the Very Large Data Bases Endowment Inc. (VLDB) 2022 Test of Time award, for their 2011 paper that has proven to be the most influential and important paper of that year. The paper’s citation index is 1587. The paper, “ PathSim: Meta Path-Based Top-K Similarity Search in Heterogeneous Information Networks, ” was authored by Yu, Yizhou Sun, Jiawei Han, Xifeng Yan, and Tianyi Wu. “In my opinion, Test of Time awards are extremely important awards,” said Robert Sloan, professor and computer science department head. It’s one thing to win a best paper award when you publish a paper. That means people think it’s very good work. But when you win a Test of Time award 10 or 15 years after you publish a paper, that means that people now know The paper involves similarity search, a primitive operation in databases and web search engines. There are many diverse information networks, such as webpages interconnected through hyperlinks, social networks such as Facebook, and bibliographic networks. While two objects may be linked by many paths in the network, most previously existing similarity measures were designed for homogenous networks, and cannot be applied to heterogeneous networks, as different semantic meanings behind the paths were not taken into consideration. The authors introduced the concept of meta-path-based similarity, defining a meta path as a path consisting of sequence relations defined by different object types. “No matter whether a user would like to explicitly specify a path combination given sufficient domain knowledge, or choose the best path by experimental trials, or simply provide training examples to learn it, meta path forms a common base for a network-based similarity search engine,” the authors explained in the paper. They designed a novel similarity measure, PathSim, that finds peer objects in the network, such as finding authors in a similar field and with similar reputations. This tool was more adept at finding meaningful connections compared with random-walk-based similarity measures, which rely on the link path between any two patterns. To support fast online queries, Yu and his coauthors developed a solution that uses short meta paths, then concentrates them to compute the top-K results, or best answers, eliminating irrelevant results. “In short, all the world’s information networks consist of edges connecting multiple nodes, and before this paper, all the work in the area ignored differences concerning the types Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>