<DOCNO>2624</DOCNO>
<URL>https://honors.uic.edu/news-stories/honors-instructor-and-fellow-select-for-the-oped-project-public-voices-fellowship-2022-23</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Honors College Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Admissions menu Expand Academics menu Expand Involvement menu Expand Resources menu Expand Faculty & Fellows menu Eyebrow menu Giving Contact Us HARS Login UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Honors Instructor and Fellow selected for the OpEd Project Public Voices Fellowship 2022-23 Posted on September 12, 2022 Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this via email Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Margena Christian, Honors Instructor and Fellow, is selected for the OpEd Project’s Public Voices Fellowship. The Public Voices Fellowship is a national initiative first piloted at Yale, Stanford, and Princeton Universities, and now rolling out in partnership with top universities and foundations across the nation. Each Public Voices Fellowship is customized for approximately 20 women and underrepresented thought leaders at each institution. Fellowships last one year and in most cases lead to ongoing partnerships. — Margena Christian (she/her/hers) Media Scholar, Journalist, Author and Senior Lecturer, Department of English, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, University of Illinois Chicago Margena A. Christian is a senior lecturer in English at the University of Illinois Chicago, where she is a founding faculty member of the professional writing minor. Her research interests focus on the intersections of the role of the media in education, Black popular culture and historical inquiry. She is a former senior editor and senior writer with EBONY (2009-2014) and a former features editor, associate editor and — Read more about the Public Voices Fellowship here . Modified on September 27, 2022 University of Illinois Chicago Admissions First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Continuing Applicants Scholarships for Incoming First-Year Students Scholarships for Incoming Transfer Students Current Students HARS Login Scholarships Current Fellows Tutoring Graduation Information Other Resources Office of External Fellowships Office of Undergraduate Research UIC SnAP Study Abroad Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Career Services Miscellaneous Information for Alumni Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 828 South Halsted Street, 102 Burnham Hall, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2260 Fax: (312) 413-1266 hcollege@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>