<DOCNO>2651</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/undergraduate/career-outcomes</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs College of Engineering Undergraduate Undergraduate Career Outcomes Undergraduate Career Outcomes At UIC Engineering, your success is paramount. Your coursework in engineering or computer science will prepare you to succeed in your career—or to excel in graduate or professional school. Our career development programs step in to give you the knowledge, skills, and tools you need to be competitive in seeking the job or graduate-school placement of your choice. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC Engineering students benefit from a team of full-time staff whose primary goal—and area of expertise—is connecting students with rewarding positions in engineering. The Engineering Career Cnter organizes opportunities for students to meet with employers, and it provides one-on-one guidance across the spectrum of the career-search process, from applying to interviewing to negotiating your salary. Follow the link below to learn about our specialized career development offerings. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link 400+ companies actively hire our students 53% of graduates report starting salaries between $70,000 and $100,000+ 4 full-time career staff devoted entirely to UIC Engineering students Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Coordinates two career fairs that are focused specifically on engineering and computer science. These events attract more than 225 companies each year. Career fairs are often divided into time for engineering majors and time for computer science and computer engineering majors, giving students and companies a chance to make the right match. Prepares students to succeed in the internship and job search. Engineering students can meet one-on-one with career counselors or participate in group workshops to gain skills in searching for positions, writing résumés and cover letters, conducting a strong interview, and negotiating offers and salary. Develops relationships with employers. Our career center staff continually seeks to create and strengthen UIC Engineering’s connections to the companies where our students seek to work—and can have an impact. Connects students with alumni through a mentoring program called the Professional Connections Program. Juniors and seniors are invited to apply in October of each academic year, and participants are matched with alumni whose career is pertinent to their chosen major. Organizes our unique Guaranteed Paid Internship Program. UIC Engineering guarantees a paid summer internship to first-year and transfer students at UIC Engineering who maintain a minimum GPA and who participate in the Freshman Engineering Success Program. Learn more Sends out weekly newsletters with information on internship and job opportunities, events, and more. For additional information, visit the Engineering Career Center website . Undergraduate Back to main content Admissions Admitted Students Advising Career Outcomes Diversity Engineering Expo FAQ Guaranteed Paid Intern Program Majors and Minors Scholarships Student Groups Student Resources Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>