<DOCNO>2686</DOCNO>
<URL>https://dscc.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>UIC Specialized Care for Children - We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources. Contact Us Menu We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources. Skip to content Home Who We Are Executive Director’s Greeting About Us History Annual Report News Events The Family Voice Family Stories Family Advisory Council Family Surveys Medical Advisory Board Employment Opportunities Join Our Team How We Help How We Help Accessing diagnostic tests Finding specialized medical care Using insurance & All Kids / Medicaid Finding resources & information Developing a care coordination plan Communicating with doctors, specialists & schools Preparing for transition Paying for certain medical expenses Does It Cost Money? Is My Child Eligible? Programs Core Program Home Care Program Interim Relief Program How To Apply Refer A Family Find An Office Find An Office Champaign Chicago Chicago Home Care Lombard Marion Mokena Olney Peoria Rockford Springfield Administrative Office Springfield St. Clair Contact Us Request a Callback Browse Resources Resource Directory COVID-19 Resources and Supports for Families Transition Tools Home Care Information Hub Home Care Nursing Information for Families Waiver Services for Home Care Families Non-Waiver Services for Home Care Families Parent-to-Parent Support Brochures and Pamphlets Request Brochures and Pamphlets Forms Glossary For Providers How We Help Providers Provider Application Nursing Agency Application Reimbursement Information Explanation of Provider Payments Provider Forms Home Care Information and Resources for Providers Home Care Provider Notices Home Care Rate Table Tools and Resources Provider Portal Refer A Family Contact Us We’re here to help. We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources. Is my child eligible? Apply Now How we help. How we help you and your child depends on your specific preferences and needs.  Our Care Coordinators can support you in the following areas: Accessing diagnostic tests Finding specialized medical care Using insurance & All Kids / Medicaid Finding resources & information Developing a care coordination plan Communicating with doctors, specialists & schools Preparing for transition Paying for certain medical expenses Learn More » Who we help. We serve thousands of families in all counties across the State of Illinois. — Erica Stearns, mother of Margot and Caratacus Read family stories » Chicago Care Coordinator Earns DSCC Merit Award Chicago Care Coordinator Earns DSCC Merit Award Read more Read more David Martinez honored for his dedication to supporting Illinois children with special healthcare needs and their families David Martinez is the 2022 recipient of the Merit Award from the University of Illinois Chicago’s Division of S... Read more ▶︎ Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across Illinois Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across Illinois Read more Read more Events feature sensitive Santa, holiday lights, craft activities and more! Are you looking for sensory-friendly events that the whole family can enjoy this holiday season? There are a number of sensitive Santa opportunities,... Read more ▶︎ Share Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation Process Share Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation Process Read more Read more Help our Family Advisory Council recommend changes that can benefit Home Care Program participants and their families. The Division of Specialized Care for Children (DSCC) helps coordinate and monitor in-home nursing for families thro... Read more ▶︎ Chicago Care Coordinator Earns DSCC Merit Award Chicago Care Coordinator Earns DSCC Merit Award Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across Illinois Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across Illinois Share Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation Process Share Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation Process News Chicago Care Coordinator Earns DSCC Merit Award December 6, 2022 David Martinez honored for his dedication to supporting Illinois children with special healthcare needs and their families David Martinez is the 2022 recipient of the... 2022 Transition Conference Prepares Youth With Disabilities for Adulthood November 28, 2022 The annual Stepping Stones of Transition Conference gives families and professionals valuable resources and information to support youth on the path to adulthood. Sixteen-year-old Ayla... Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across Illinois November 22, 2022 Events feature sensitive Santa, holiday lights, craft activities and more! Are you looking for sensory-friendly events that the whole family can enjoy this holiday season?... More news » Events Secret Sleigh Project's In-Home Santa Visits December 1, 2022 Webinar - "Peer to Peer: Bridging the Gap Through Self-Advocacy Curriculum" December 8, 2022 Programa Ligas Family Advocate Talleres en Español: Conoce Tus Opciones! December 9, 2022 More events » Call us (800) 322-3722 or Send us an email › We’re here to help. The University of Illinois Chicago’s Division of Specialized Care for Children provides FREE care coordination for families of children with special healthcare needs. Visit Us on Facebook Contact Us. P: (800) 322-3722 F: (217) 558-0773 Hours: Request a Callback Send us an email Get our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email * Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. USE OF THIS SITE SIGNIFIES YOUR AGREEMENT TO THE TERMS OF USE . © Copyright 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois</TEXT>