<DOCNO>271</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/joseph-e-michaelis-receives-grant-to-develop-robot-for-homework-help</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Joseph E. Michaelis receives grant to develop robot for homework help Andrea Poet | Posted on September 26, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Assistant Professor Joseph E. Michaelis Teachers often help students in science classrooms by providing guidance, including offering up subtle cues to what students might notice about their learning, restating key points in what others are explaining, or asking students questions to explain their reasoning. Educational technologies typically provide some lesson support, but most systems fail to provide personal connections and guidance like what students find in the classroom. While some social robotic learning tools exist, they do not allow teachers to customize their lesson plans. Teachers will be able to create embedded comments for the robots to say to students while learning at home that can be tailored to the specific learning needs of that student. “We see PATHWiSE as a way for teachers to further connect with their students while they work outside of the classroom. By creating lessons with a social robot, teachers can infuse their humor and personal style into homework to transform homework questions into conversations,” Michaelis said. “This work goes beyond adaptive learning – it helps learning feel personal.” Michaelis and other researchers will work with middle school science teachers and students in the design of the robot, and a teacher authoring tool, PATHWiSE, the Personalized Augmentation Tool for HomeWork in Science Education. PATHWISE overlays trigger-action pairs directly onto multimedia homework activities controlled by the teacher, who will indicate where in the homework to provide guidance. The research will culminate in a four-week study where teachers will create augmented homework assignments for their science classes, and their students will complete these assignments at home with either the robot or a similar computer-based system. Michaelis divides his time between the computer science department, and the Learning Science Institute, and the grant is for interdisciplinary work between the two entities. The $350,000 grant, Collaborative Research: HCC: Small: PATHWiSE – Supporting Teacher Authoring of Robot-Assisted Homework, is Michaelis’ first NSF grant. It is part of an overall effort with Bilge Mutlu, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, with overall funding of $600,000. Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>