<DOCNO>277</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/expert-in-analyzing-understanding-complex-systems-joins-faculty</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Expert in analyzing, understanding complex systems joins faculty Andrea Poet | Posted on August 24, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Sourav Medya Graphs or networks are tools that capture the strength of relationships between entities and can model many complex systems such as traffic, social networks, and the web. Medya designs machine learning-based algorithms that help to analyze, understand, and optimize large-scale networked systems. Medya is not new to the Chicago area, calling Northwestern University home for the past three years, first as a postdoctoral researcher hosted by Professor Brian Uzzi, then as a research assistant professor at the Kellogg School of Management and the Northwestern Institute on Complex Systems (NICO). “I was at NICO working with a team including physicists, mathematicians, lawyers, and social scientists,” Medya said. “We worked to solve problems which mainly arise in interdisciplinary areas; we would think of ways we could apply machine learning and AI to enhance our understanding of real social systems and make them more efficient and fairer.” He earned his PhD in computer science at the University of California at Santa Barbara, advised by Ambuj Singh. Before that, he received his bachelor’s of technology degree from the West Bengal University of Technology in Kolkata, India, and his master’s degree in computer science from the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore, India. Medya is excited to join UIC, noting its warm, friendly environment, and the opportunity to collaborate with colleagues who are experts on a broad range of topics. He also appreciates that he will be at a large, public university with a diverse student body. “There are many teachers and mentors who have contributed to my life,” Medya said. “I’m really excited about mentoring as well as teaching and I like to have a similar impact on my students.” Medya will teach CS 418, Introduction to Data Science, this fall. In spring, he will teach CS 594, a Special Topics course on machine learning for graphs. Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>