<DOCNO>2800</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/updates-to-covid-19-university-sponsored-travel-approvals</URL>
<TEXT>Updates to COVID-19 university-sponsored travel approvals | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Updates to COVID-19 university-sponsored travel approvals The university continues to monitor community and campus transmission of COVID-19 along with recommendations from our public health partners to inform any changes to administrative operations. As of Monday, Dec. 5, 2022, travel is not restricted due to COVID-19. Travelers are advised to review UIC travel guidelines . Please be sure to make note of any testing requirements upon your return from traveling. Information about on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing is available online . According to standard university practice , the university requires faculty, staff and students traveling for essential university business to obtain prior approval from their unit head. As of Monday, Dec. 5, 2022, the University COVID-19 Pre-travel Unit/department Head Approval From will no longer be required for travel, T-Card reconciling or reimbursement. All members of our UIC community are encouraged to comprehensively assess the risks Please note that the International Travel Safety Policy remains in effect. This policy requires all student, staff and faculty traveling internationally with UIC-authorization to enroll their travel using the International Travel Safety website . Please review the information provided on the UIC COVID-19 Resource page For more information, please contact: Contact UIC News staff uicnews-staff@uic.edu Categories Announcements , Info UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>