<DOCNO>2828</DOCNO>
<URL>https://uihealth.uic.edu/news-stories/celebrating-the-new-ui-health-hospital-welcome-atrium</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. UI Health Search the site UI Health UI Health Main Menu Expand About Us menu Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu Eyebrow menu MAKE A GIFT UIC menu UI Health UIC.edu Campus Map Search Celebrating the New UI Health Hospital Welcome Atrium Posted on November 30, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link On Wednesday, November 16, 2022, UI Health hosted a reception for the University of Illinois Board of Trustees to celebrate the new UI Health Hospital Welcome Atrium. With only a few finishing touches remaining to be completed, the two-story space will welcome patients and their families with modern architecture that is spacious and bright. The atrium will also ensure a first-class healthcare experience with improved access, circulation and wayfinding, as well as a reflection room and pastoral care area. At the celebration, remarks about the significance of the new atrium were given by Dr. Robert A. Barish, UIC vice chancellor for health affairs; Dr. Javier Reyes, UIC interim chancellor, and  Mike Zenn, CEO of University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics. During the celebration the UI System Interim Executive Vice President and VP for Faculty Affairs, Dr. Avijit Ghosh was recognized for the vision and leadership he demonstrated in commencing the atrium project, both as former interim hospital CEO and as a generous donor.  When speaking about how the atrium contributes to fulfilling the mission of UI Health, Dr. Barish  stated, “Some people have asked why we’ve invested in something like an atrium, that has no clinical function. It’s because the moment our patients walk through these doors, this beautiful space tells them that they matter and their health matters. This atrium is an expression of UI Health’s commitment to providing an exceptional experience and compassionate care to our communities.” Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Go to slide 6 Go to slide 7 Go to slide 8 Go to slide 9 Go to slide 10 Go to slide 11 Go to slide 12 Go to slide 13 Go to slide 14 Go to slide 15 Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health The welcome atrium is spacious with much natural light. In this photo the lower section of the wood-paneled second-story reflection room is visible Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health Amidst the many green plants and trees are seating areas for hospital visitors. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health The new information desk will welcome hospital visitors and help guide them to care destinations within the hospital. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health A view down the pedestrian walkway which passes over Taylor Street to join the hospital atrium to the new UI Health Specialty Care Building, which opened to patients In September, 2022. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health Dr. Avijit Ghosh and Dr. Sara L. McLafftery posing with a wall plaque honoring their important roles in making the atrium a reality. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health UI Health leadership joined the University of Illinois Board of Trustees for an evening reception in the new atrium. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health UI System President Timothy Killeen (far left) and his wife Roberta, speaking with Adrienne Nazon, hospital vice president for external relations and communications (far right), and her husband Jeune. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health Dr. Glen Schumock, dean of the UIC College of Pharmacy and Scott Jones, hospital chief ambulatory operations officer. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health Dr. Robert A. Barish, UIC vice chancellor for health affairs, welcoming the gathered dignitaries and celebrants. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health UIC Interim Chancellor Javier Reyes delivering remarks to celebrate the new hospital atrium. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health Prior to addressing the gathered celebrants, hospital CEO Mike Zenn paused for a photo. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health UI System interim executive vice president and vp for faculty affairs and former interim CEO Dr. Avijit Ghosh, whose vision and generosity were instrumental in making the atrium a reality. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health David Loffing, executive project manager for enterprise operations at the hospital, addressing the gathered celebrants. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health An architectural rendering of the completed atrium, located at the northwest corner of Taylor and Wood Streets in Chicago. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide photo: UIC/UI Health A second rendering of the completed atrium illuminated at night, with the wood paneled reflection room visible from outside. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Opened to patents in September, 2022, the Specialty Care Building is designed to meet the growing need for specialized services and outpatient surgery in the Chicago metropolitan area. This state-of-the-art facility has nearly 200,000 square feet of surgical and patient care space dedicated to providing exceptional health care, and is projected to serve 600 to 800 patients per day. Modified on December 05, 2022 UI Health Quick Links About Us Community Health Sciences Colleges Healthcare Research & Clinical Trials Healthcare Resources Patient Portal Find a Doctor For Patients For Clinicians Locations & Directions Health Sciences Colleges Applied Health Sciences Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Social Work Footer 4 Give Now Health Professions Admissions Contact UI Health Social Media Accounts Contact 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973) Phone: (312) 355-6465 vcha@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>