<DOCNO>290</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/17-companies-tap-more-than-100-uic-students-to-tackle-tech-challenges</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering 17 companies tap more than 100 UIC students to tackle tech challenges Jacqueline Carey | Posted on May 10, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link More than 100 women and nonbinary students pursuing undergraduate degrees in computer science, data science and other tech disciplines at the University of Illinois Chicago will team up with 17 Chicago and national companies to help solve technology-related business challenges. The students are participants in Break Through Tech Chicago’s annual Sprinternship, a micro-internship program designed to transform the career trajectories of women (cisgender and transgender) and nonbinary individuals by offering the foundational work experience that prepares them for the tech workforce. These industry-academic partnerships aim to address the long-standing gender imbalance of the tech workforce. The internship begins May 9 and is a true three-week “sprint” ending May 27. Students, typically organized in teams of five, will present the results of their challenge project in their final week of Sprinternship. “While statistics on the scant representation of women in the tech workforce and leadership ranks can at times be overwhelming to absorb, Sprinternship offers a solution that is within reach of every company and every student,” said Amita Shetty, director of the Break Through Tech Chicago program. “The results of investing in this program speak for itself, not just in Chicago, but across multiple sites.” While more than half of all undergraduate degrees awarded in the U.S. go to women, only 1% of women are graduating with degrees in computing. The program’s primary goal is to advance gender diversity by improving students’ access to full-length summer internships sooner in their academic journey. The Break Through Tech Chicago partners for the 2022 Sprinternship Adams Street Partners Amazon Web Services, Inc. Aon plc Christopher B. Burke Engineering, Ltd. Cisco Systems CVS Health GE Healthcare Inc. KPMG Littelfuse Inc. McDonald’s Corporation Morningstar Inc. NielsenIQ Northern Trust Corporation Optum PEAK6 Relativity UIC Sprinternships are tailored by the organizations that host them, so each one is unique, but all include a team-based approach that focuses on a tech challenge project, a career immersive experience and hands-on mentorship. Last year’s projects ranged from analyzing the digital customer experience to predicting machine failures to addressing the Chicago digital divide. The 2022 Sprinternship projects are expected to similarly inspire and prepare the next generation of technologists and leaders. “The tech world of tomorrow will look different. There will be more diversity: in gender, in background, in ways of thinking. It will be that way because of the important work we are doing here today,” Shetty said. More information about hosting Sprinterns in 2023 can be found at chicago.breakthroughtech.org btt@uic.edu . This story first appeared on UIC Today Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>