<DOCNO>2907</DOCNO>
<URL>https://advance.uic.edu/alumni-association/get-involved</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Advancement Main Menu Expand UIC Alumni Association menu Expand Give to UIC menu Expand Stories menu Expand About Advancement menu Eyebrow menu Give Now UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Advancement UIC Alumni Association Get Involved Get Involved Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The UIC Alumni Association offers a wide array of volunteer opportunities for UIC alumni to get involved. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Many alumni join university administrators in advocating for federal and state funding for the universities and for their interests. Lobbying or advocate through Illinois Connection Reach out to alumni via phone, email or social media to encourage program and event participation Host an event The Alumni Admissions Volunteer Program connects our passionate alumni to prospective students, providing alumni with the opportunity to share their experiences and success stories and inspiring students to enroll at our great university. Get started here . Alumni affinity networks assist in organizing and connecting alumni to their closest affinity to UIC. Affinity is defined as a group that alumni are most closely linked to by common interest or purpose (e.g. geography, college, unit, athletic team or affinity—Greek life, employees, cultural, ethnic, veterans, etc.). Being involved in an alumni affinity network is a rewarding way to stay connected to friends and colleagues while having an impact on UIC students and alumni.  Learn more by contacting uicalumni@uic.edu . Umoja: Black Legacy Alumni Coalition is an affinity network that engages Black alumni of UIC. Umoja, which means “unity” in Swahili, aims to provide networking and community to UIC alumni, support student recruitment and retention, honor history and build traditions. If you are interested in getting involved with Umoja, please contact uicalumni@uic.edu . Alumni Exchange is a virtual event series that brings news, knowledge, and entertainment to help you learn, grow, explore, connect and escape from the everyday with a community of UIC alumni and faculty. Learn more . UIC Connected is an exclusive virtual network where you can connect with fellow alumni and current students for mentorship, networking and career growth. When you join, you can decide how you want to share career advice, build networks and help one another grow and connect. Access the platform at connected.uic.edu . College of Applied Health Sciences College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts College of Business Administration College of Dentistry College of Education College of Engineering Graduate College Honors College UIC Law College of Liberal Arts & Sciences College of Medicine College of Medicine at Peoria College of Medicine at Rockford College of Nursing College of Pharmacy School of Public Health Jane Addams College of Social Work College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs The time spent at UIC and varied experiences beyond make alumni perspectives and input uniquely valuable. Serve on a college, unit or university-level board, committees or task forces Speak or facilitate in classrooms, at workshops or with student organization Judge a competition Apply to be UIC Connected Champion here Interested in becoming a member of the UIC Alumni Board? Applications are accepted on a yearly basis. The application period is open January 1–March 31 of each year. Applications received after that date will be placed in the pool for the following year. Visit UIC Alumni Board ‘s page to learn more. UICAA Virtual Alumni Book Club aims to provide UIC alumni with enriching discussions around a variety of fiction and nonfiction genres, including career and lifelong learning resources to aid in your professional development. Hosted on the Goodreads website and app, this virtual community is open to all UIC alumni and reading enthusiasts. Join us at go.uic.edu/virtualbookclub . Tell Us How You'd Like to Engage Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Phone: Email: UIC Alumni Association Back to main content Alumni Career Services Network, Mentor and Hire Find a Coach Watch Career Webinars Alumni Exchange Awards and Recognition Alumni Awards Golden Grads Lighting of the Flame Circle Campus & UIC History Benefits and Services Class Notes Submit a Class Note! Sort by College Sort by Decade Professional Achievements Life Changes Obituaries Get Involved UIC Alumni Board UICAA Year in Review Submit a Class Note Update Your Information Connect With Your College IGNITE: The Campaign for UIC University of Illinois Chicago Contact 815 W. Van Buren Street, Suite 400, Rice Building, MC 002, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-8272 advance@uic.edu Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>