<DOCNO>2916</DOCNO>
<URL>https://emails.uofi.uic.edu/newsletter/1982230233.html</URL>
<TEXT>Advance UIC A newsletter for supporters and champions of UIC Click here to see this online Students celebrate commencement across campus. An Evening With Legacies and Leaders: IGNITE Success On May 12, the UIC community came together to celebrate alumni and friends for their philanthropy, commitment and support of our university and the success of IGNITE: The Campaign for UIC, which has surpassed the $750 million goal, raising more than $772 million to date. Gifts to IGNITE support student success, drive discovery, empower faculty and help us connect to the communities we serve. The event featured a cocktail reception with speeches by students and faculty, who shared the impact giving has had on their education and research, and UIC leadership. Watch a recording of the event here here . Making an Impact as a Male Teacher of Color Class of 2022 graduates (left to right) Reon Gillespie, Alan Aburto and Ja’Waun Williams not only celebrated their recent graduations from the College of Education but they are also the first cohort to graduate from the Call Me MISTER program. MISTER stands for, “Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role Models” and is part of an initiative to address the scarcity of male teachers of color in the nation’s elementary classrooms. Programs like these allow UIC students to reach new heights and effect positive change. Read more . UIC Provost To Serve as Interim Chancellor At UIC, we are cultivating and empowering our leaders. Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Javier Reyes will serve as interim chancellor of UIC beginning July 1, following the departure of Chancellor Michael Amiridis for the presidency of the University of South Carolina. Reyes’s work as provost and his almost two decades of higher education experience make him the right person to lead UIC while a search is conducted for a permanent chancellor. Read more . Trailblazer: Niva Oghigian BS ’69, MS ’71 UIC alumna Niva Oghigian BS ’69, MS ’71 did what few women of her generation were able to do. She was one of the first women to enroll at UIC College of Engineering, went on to earn a BS and MS in electrical engineering and built a successful career in the aerospace and defense industries. Today she’s helping women with the Niva S. Oghigian Scholarship, which provides funding for College of Engineering students who demonstrate need and merit. Oghigian’s gift makes a tremendous impact to fuel opportunity for UIC students. Read more . Professor Makes Gift To Increase Diversity in College of Business UIC Professor Benét DeBerry-Spence and her family have generously established a fund to assist students and increase diversity within the College of Business Administration. The inaugural Spence Undergraduate Fellows Scholarships will be awarded during the spring 2022 semester and benefit marketing students who demonstrate academic merit and are active in the student organization Black Students in Business. Gifts like these are an investment in enterprising students who aspire and achieve. Read more . June 1 How to Master an AI-based Interview UICAA RSVP June 9 Recent Graduate Happy Hour School of Public Health RSVP June 15 Taking an Entrepreneurial Approach to Your Career UICAA RSVP June 21 JACSW Training Institute for School Social Work Professionals Jane Addams College of Social Work RSVP University of Illinois at Chicago | Office of Advancement 750 S. Halsted St., Suite 500 (MC 100) Chicago, Il 60607 advancement@uic.edu (312) 413-8517 © 2022 University of Illinois at Chicago</TEXT>