<DOCNO>2918</DOCNO>
<URL>https://emails.uofi.uic.edu/newsletter/2018176826.html</URL>
<TEXT>UICAA Newsletter: UIC Surpasses IGNITE Campaign Goal Points of pride, news, event highlights and engagement opportunities curated especially for UIC alumni. Click here to see this online UIC students take advantage of the nice weather on Harrison Field. Honoring Our Remarkable Alumni UIC and Chancellor Michael Amiridis honored this year's alumni award recipients, a group of remarkable individuals whose service to UIC has made a significant impact, at a virtual ceremony. The honorees include (clockwise from left to right) Dr. Melissa Sioux Amundson BS '05, DDS '07, Dr. David Ansell MPH '91, Carol Moseley Braun BA '69, John Ochoa BArch '78, Dr. Archana Reddy Shrestha BA '98, MD '04, Captain Todd Stankewicz MBA '01, MPH '01 and Dr. Sheila Dinotshe Tlou PhD '90. Read more about them here here . UIC Surpasses IGNITE Campaign Goal IGNITE: The Campaign for UIC, the most ambitious fundraising effort in the university’s history, has exceeded its $750 million goal ahead of schedule, raising a total of almost $774 million. Every gift supports our mission of providing the broadest access to excellence. Read more . UIC's successes were also highlighted at Chancellor Amiridis' final state of the university address. "Through our collective action and resilient spirit, UIC is thriving, and its best days are yet to come,” he said. Read more about his final address here . Graduate Program Rankings Soar UIC continues to be recognized for its academic strength as graduate programs see a steady rise in rankings in the latest U.S. News and World Report Read more . Improving Infant Care in Haiti UIC alumni like clinical associate professor and pediatric nurse practitioner Susan Walsh DNP ’14, MS ’00, BSN ’80, are making a difference in the lives of others. Her dedication to maternal and neonatal care in Haiti has helped bring a potentially life-saving medication into use in the country. The topical antiseptic, which helps reduce infection in umbilical cord care, was recently approved by the Haitian government. Read more . April 28 Virtual OT Scholarship of Practice Day College of Applied Health Sciences RSVP May 4 May the 4th Be With You: Star Wars and UIC College of Liberal Arts and Sciences RSVP May 5 Spring Refresh: Yoga for Self-Care College of Applied Health Sciences RSVP May 19 The Health Risks of Misinformation School of Public Health RSVP June 9 Recent Graduate Happy Hour School of Public Health RSVP Submit a class note Update your info | Connect with your college University of Illinois Chicago | Alumni Association 750 S. Halsted St., Suite 500 (MC 100) Chicago, Il 60607 uicalumni@uic.edu (312) 413-8272 © University of Illinois Chicago</TEXT>