<DOCNO>2949</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/about</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search About Down arrow icon Welcome to the UIC College of Engineering! The UIC College of Engineering brings together two properties that are often disconnected in higher education: excellence and accessibility. We seek to provide world-class preparation to students of all backgrounds in an urban setting, creating new opportunities for young engineers and contributing to diversity in the field. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link #9 UIC's national rank for "best value" according to The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education. #8 UIC's national rank in U.S. News & World Report for social mobility. We are also in the top 20 of all U.S. universities for diversity. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Driven by the college’s combination of accessibility and excellence, student enrollment at UIC Engineering has skyrocketed over the last decade. To keep pace—and to ensure that our students have access to top-tier facilities—we opened one new building in 2019 and have a second new building slated for 2023. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC Engineering’s mission is access to excellence and success . We educate students to innovate and to lead. We expand global knowledge of the engineering field through excellence in original research. In addition, as a public institution we prioritize our relationship with the city of Chicago and the state of Illinois. We foster strong local partnerships, provide crucial engineering expertise and facilities, and serve as a major economic driver for the region. Our current priorities include: Recruiting bright students with unique stories and talents Attracting and retaining world-class teachers and researchers Building top-tier facilities Creating a strong alumni community Establishing strong partnerships with government, industry, and academia Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Extraordinary value The total cost for a UIC undergraduate engineering education is about $72,000—a third the price of the same degree at many private universities. Extraordinary dividends More than half of UIC Engineering bachelor of science graduates report starting salaries between $70,000 and more than $100,000. Extraordinary location Our students benefit from the full range of internships, job opportunities, startup incubators, and other resources of metropolitan Chicago. Guaranteed internships UIC Engineering is home to a unique Guaranteed Paid Internship Program that places qualified first-year transfer World-changing research Supported by more than $141 million in grants, our faculty are working on research that stands to help clean our air, provide access to water, revolutionize battery technology, improve healthcare, sharpen data security, and address hundreds of other issues. Accomplished faculty Our 197 faculty include 42 recipients of the prestigious National Science Foundation CAREER Award. They hold 96 fellowships in professional societies and have received more than 81 teaching awards from UIC and other institutions. About Back to main content Dean Faculty Distinguished Professors Book Dedications Faculty Development Faculty Honors Faculty Meetings Teaching Resources Research Resources Administration Graduate Research Staff Advisory Board Alumni Diversity Facilities Engineering Innovation Building MakerSpace Summer Camp News RISE Contact Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>