<DOCNO>2972</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/making-an-impact-through-engineering</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Making an impact through engineering David Staudacher | Posted on August 18, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Kristen Moore wants to make the world a better place, and she is planning to do it through engineering. Moore, a master’s student in the Construction Engineering and Management program in civil, materials, and environmental engineering at UIC, earned a bachelor’s degree in biology and had the idea to help people through medicine. However, her desire to work with people and be hands on led her to the CME program. “I thought I could make a bigger impact in engineering construction,” she said. “I want to be part of something bigger than myself. Something I can say I was part of, but it is a group effort, and my portion made a difference and will be there for a lifetime.” Moore is kick starting her career as a project manager intern with Lakeside Alliance, the builder of the Obama Presidential Center in the Hyde Park neighborhood in Chicago. “I’m getting assigned critical tasks and helping on the progression of the project and what needs to be delivered,” she said. “I’m learning realistically what it’s like to be a construction engineer. I’d like to establish a firm grasp of what it takes to construct a building.” Preparing students for real-world success is the goal at UIC. For students like Moore, it involves understanding terminology, what it’s like to be a construction project manager, and having a thorough grasp of industry rules and regulations. “When I walk into a job, I understand what’s going on and what’s asked of me,” she said. “UIC really helped me understand at a high level so I can learn faster, and employers are not breaking everything down to square one on the job site.” In addition to an internship, Moore is helping others as an active member of student organizations. She was recently named the president of the UIC chapter “I want to expose more students, especially undergraduates, to all the different job opportunities, and how CMAA can help them get internships and grow their networks,” she said. She also is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers Moore’s leadership and achievements led to her receiving the prestigious National Academy of Construction “She is a hard-working and dedicated student who always demonstrates high levels of integrity, involvement, and professionalism. I am sure that she will be one of the most successful graduates of our program,” said Hossein Ataei, director of the Construction Engineering and Management program at UIC. Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>