<DOCNO>2983</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/professor-houshang-darabi-takes-the-helm-of-mie</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Professor Houshang Darabi takes the helm of MIE Posted on July 21, 2022 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Professor Houshang Darabi “I am very excited about this opportunity to take the department to the next level,” he said. “I look forward to helping our students, faculty, and staff continue its success as we grow and accomplish great things.” Darabi succeeds Farzad Mashayek, who led the department since 2009, and is headed to the University of Arizona. “I am confident that the department will be in capable hands,” Mashayek said. “Houshang Darabi has served the department for a long time as the director of undergraduate studies and has a proven administrative record.” Darabi obtained his PhD in industrial engineering in 2000 – he joined UIC in the same year – from Rutgers University, his master’s degrees from Sharif University of Technology, and his bachelor’s from Iran University of Technology & Science. As the director of the Prominent laboratory , his research interests are in process mining, time series classification, healthcare engineering, safety engineering, and engineering education. He has served as principal or co-principal investigator on more than $25 million external grants. He has been funded by many private sponsors, and several federal agencies including the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Among Darabi’s many notable accomplishments are his highly cited articles in the area of time series classification. In two papers in 2017 and 2019, he and his students introduced a special neural network architecture for solving single and multi-channel time series classification problems, which are among the most cited in the area of time series classification. Other achievements include the development of artificial intelligence frameworks/tools for automating and improving occupational safety and health systems. His research accomplishments in this area have been recognized by NIOSH through multiple grants, and have been widely published and presented nationally and internationally. His significant teaching and service contributions includes receiving the 2017 UIC Award of Excellence for Teaching, the most prestigious teaching award at UIC, and leading the successful ABET accreditation of MIE in 2014 and 2020. Darabi was featured in the American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) magazine for his contribution in developing a course that prepares senior undergraduate students for their life after graduation. He was the recipient of the ASEE’s Minorities in Engineering Division Best Paper Award for his research on improving admission practices and advising underrepresented minorities in their first three semesters. He also led a college-wide student success project, serving as the principal investigator on a $1.2 million National Science Foundation (NSF) grant, with collaborating professors from every engineering department to develop methods for the retention and graduation of at-risk engineering students. The project has developed a number of evidence-based intervention programs – such as an industry mentorship program, summer bridge program, service learning project, and engineering success initiative – to help these students succeed in their engineering education. As a result, the two-year retention rate for students supported by this program is 94%. Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>