<DOCNO>2991</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/a-work-ethic-for-both-chemical-engineering-and-judo</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search A work ethic for both chemical engineering and judo David Brazy | Posted on July 05, 2022 Chemical engineering junior trains hard – in the classroom and on the mat Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Growing up in Chicago, UIC chemical engineering junior Sofia Capron tried her hand at ballet and soccer, but neither truly resonated with her. Instead, Capron gravitated toward playing football with the boys during recess and wrestling with her dad and brother at home. This was all fine until Capron started getting stronger and better at wrestling. “My dad decided I should beat up someone else, so he brought me to a judo practice,” Capron explained. “My first day on the judo mat, I made a boy cry after he couldn’t escape my hold and I’ve been training ever since!” Judo, which means the “gentle or yielding way,” is a combat sport like wrestling, but it also includes armbars and chokes like jiu-jitsu. Competitors face off against each other and attempt to score points by throwing opponents, pinning them, or immobilizing them through armbars or strangleholds. Capron studied judo throughout high school and continues to train while attending UIC. She recently competed at the USA Judo Senior Nationals in Daytona, Florida, and placed third in the women’s senior bracket. Each year, she competes every other month and travels to training camps all around the U.S. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link With her passion for the sport and previous success, Capron has set a goal to qualify for the U.S. Olympic judo team in time to compete in the 2028 summer games in Los Angeles. To qualify for the Olympics, she will need to fight at international tournaments and earn world ranking points by winning matches. The highest esteemed tournaments, such as the World Championships, give the most points to winning competitors. Capron’s dedication and discipline extends beyond the judo mat to her studies at UIC. As a native Chicagoan, she picked UIC because she knew it was a good university that offered more affordable tuition. Capron was drawn to chemical engineering because she was interested in both chemistry and innovation. “The work ethic required to study chemical engineering definitely translates to my judo, and vice versa,” Capron said. “Both require sacrifices and dedication: engineering requires hours of studying and consistency, and judo requires hours of hard training and dieting.” After graduation, Capron is hoping to work in the medical field as a chemical engineer, and then eventually go to medical school after she has achieved her athletic goals. “I know of engineers and doctors who practice judo at the elite level,” Capron said. “This has shown me that it’s possible to achieve all my career and athletic goals if I work hard enough.” Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>