<DOCNO>3049</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/making-human-like-robots-more-capable</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Making human-like robots more capable David Staudacher | Posted on September 20, 2021 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The abilities of human-like robots have advanced significantly over the years, but researchers still must overcome many challenges to get those robots to a point where they can operate in the real world. A simple scenario with tables or chairs can provide a problem for robots trying to effortlessly go from one point to another in the way that a human would. Pranav Bhounsule, an assistant professor in mechanical and industrial engineering at UIC, wants to take legged robotic movements to the next level with his research. “I’m interested in making legged robots more capable,” Bhounsule said. “One of the biggest challenges is we have not figured out how these robots can control their bodies so that they can move like humans and don’t fall down.” He explained further: “Humanoid robots are highly proficient at moving at a constant speed in a straight line, but they move very slowly and pause, stand, and stop before they move again when they are presented with obstacles that require unanticipated changes in speed and direction. We want to create new control algorithms to get robots to move in environments where humans go and move very easily.” To reach his goal, Bhounsule is using a robot with “highly articulated limbs” that have multiple joints to increase the robot’s mobility. The downside of the increased articulation is that it makes the robot complex, and therefore it’s harder to plan and control its movement in cluttered spaces. Bhounsule is exploring mathematical formulations that simplify the complex dynamics and use computer optimizations to enable high-fidelity movements. In a home-like environment with furniture, appliances, and walls, for instance, the robot is able to plan its movement — considering its dynamics and all the obstacles — within fractions of a second. Overcoming this challenge will bring legged robots closer to mainstream applications in homes, offices, factories, and warehouses. Bhounsule’s work will provide UIC Engineering Expo Women in Engineering The research is funded by a nearly $500,000 National Science Foundation grant titled “Asymmetric Gait Generation for Legged Locomotion in Complex Environments via Off-Line Model Reduction and Real-Time Optimal Control” that runs through August 2024. Learn more about Bhounsule’s research on the Robotics and Motion Laboratory Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>