<DOCNO>3065</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/women-in-engineering-summer-program-empowers-high-school-students-to-pursue-engineering</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Women in Engineering Summer Program empowers high school students to pursue engineering Nina Dorado | Posted on August 17, 2021 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Women in Engineering Summer Program (WIESP) empowers and encourages female high school students to pursue an education in engineering by providing technical materials, challenging projects and inspiring guest speakers to discover their capabilities. The free four-week program, sponsored by Knowles Corporation, is under the Women in Engineering Programs office “I was never exposed to engineering in high school, so I think that it is amazing that Elsa Soto leads efforts such as WIESP,” said Jaqueline O. Rojas Robles, lead instructor for the mechanical and industrial engineering portion of WIESP and Ph.D. student studying mechanical engineering. “I think this opportunity has helped me put a lot of my future career decisions into perspective, and I am looking forward to continuing teaching in some capacity in the future.” The students began their engineering exploration through a seven-day program of electrical and computer engineering “I introduced students to different electrical components like resistors, transistors, capacitors, photocells, breadboards, jumper wires, Arduino microcontrollers, and much more,” Jones said. “My hope for them is to learn that they can truly do anything they set their minds to and overcome any obstacles. After ECE, students then delve into a seven-day program focusing on mechanical and industrial engineering . Students had the opportunity to learn about the basics of manufacturing and product design by 3D printing their own items from the comfort of their own home. “We built dancing paper robots using micro servos and autonomous nightlights using a photocell, and Dylan Lynch from the UIC MakerSpace This summer’s WIESP has been filled with many firsts. For the first time in seven years, WIESP was led entirely by female-identified UIC students and both classes were led entirely by women of color. “I have been a part of WIESP for three years, and throughout that time I have learned to grow from failure and persevere. Sharing those vulnerable moments with the next generation of women interested in STEM is something I feel they can genuinely relate to and can help motivate them,” Jones said. They’ve also introduced a WIESP program for transfer college students, known as WIESP 2.0, and have caught the attention of a few male-identified students who wish to join. “For the first time ever, we had a male-identified student in the high school program and two male-identified students in the college version,” Jones said. These students said they applied for WIESP because they want to be a part of the movement for gender equality in STEM and be an inspiration for current and future generations of allies. “These students are very talented and way ahead of where I ever was at their age. I think in addition to giving the students great learning and networking opportunities, I hope students learn that failure is part of the learning process, but they are capable of troubleshooting through it and achieving success,” Robles said. This story Modified on September 24, 2021 Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>