<DOCNO>3079</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/new-undergraduate-concentrations-enhance-industry-relevance</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search New undergraduate concentrations enhance industry relevance David Brazy | Posted on July 08, 2021 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC chemical engineering will offer five new undergraduate degree concentrations starting in fall 2021. They will join the existing concentration in biochemical engineering. The concentrations Polymers and molecular engineering Energy and environment Nanotechnology Process automation Entrepreneurship The skills required in the engineering industry have evolved, and the department is committed to keeping pace, Professor and Department Head Vikas Berry said. The concentrations were informed by surveys of alumni and industry partners. “We picked concentrations that prioritize skill development, industrial requirements, environmental sustainability, and knowledge development,” Berry said. “The concentrations will also help strengthen our graduates’ competence and competitiveness when they start their careers.” The department will continue to offer the concentration in biochemical engineering that has been in place for years. It is ideal for students who have an interest in biology or medicine, or for students who see themselves pursuing a career where they will develop new medical treatments. Alan Zdunek, the director of undergraduate studies, said the topics covered in the new concentrations play a central role in the biological, chemical, industrial, environmental, and pharmaceutical fields. The concentrations will help to bridge the knowledge gap between traditional areas of chemical engineering—such as polymers, process automation, energy, and the environment—and state-of-the-art technologies such as molecular engineering and nanomaterials, he said. “Students will learn how to apply core chemical engineering principles in these specialized areas, which will increase their hiring potential, lead to more opportunities after graduation, and position students to make significant long-term contributions to their fields and the world,” Zdunek said. In particular, he said, “we know that many of our students have an interest in creating their own companies, and the entrepreneurship concentration will provide a solid foundation they can use to start up a company.” Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>