<DOCNO>3138</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/professor-tuninetti-named-ieee-fellow</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Professor Tuninetti named IEEE Fellow Posted on February 15, 2021 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Daniela Tuninetti, professor and interim head of the electrical and computer engineering department, was named a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in January. The distinction is reserved for members whose “extraordinary accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of interest” are deemed fitting for elevation to the honor. To be considered, members are nominated by a current Fellow and then voted on by a committee of other Fellows in their area of expertise or society. Of nearly 420,000 members of IEEE, fewer than 2 percent hold this distinction. Tuninetti, a member of the IEEE Information Theory Society, was one of 282 members elevated to the rank of Fellow in 2021. “It’s good to see your peer community recognize the importance of your work,” Tuninetti said. She explained that a nominator must pick a specific aspect of your work—your most influential papers and work that made an impact on the field—as a reason to be recognized. In Tuninetti’s case, it was for her contributions to the theory of repetition protocols and wireless interference management, work that began with her PhD thesis. Tuninetti explained that at the time, in 2000, an increasing number of wireless users were crowding onto channels and competing for limited resources, creating interference. She proposed a theoretical framework for managing the interference and computed the performance in the channels based on the number of users and the level of interference. “This problem of interference in networks still exists today, and we still do not know the best way to deal with it in general,” Tuninetti said. “Having an analytical framework can make it easier to design efficient communication strategies.” To learn more about Tuninetti’s work, visit the department head page . Modified on March 04, 2021 Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>