<DOCNO>316</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/news-stories/natalie-parde-receives-grant-to-improve-early-childhood-interventions</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Natalie Parde receives grant to improve early childhood interventions Andrea Poet | Posted on October 20, 2021 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Assistant Professor Natalie Parde The project is an interdisciplinary collaboration between computer science, through artificial intelligence and natural language processing, and rehabilitation science. Infants and toddlers with developmental delays or disabilities need access to rehabilitation services early in their lives, but not all families have equal access to excellent care. One way to improve the quality of early intervention is to use family-centered care, an approach that includes the child’s family in decisions about the design of the services their child receives. Parde and Khetani will develop a better assessment tool that will help intervention designers to include the most relevant content for each child and to personalize the experience for families for all backgrounds. The project seeks to increase families’ involvement and comfort level in multiple ways: by allowing them to voice concerns about racial climate, by collecting information that families already use and prefer, and by allowing them to use a conversational agent to navigate the assessment tool.  Parde and Khetani hope that their tool will offer families a customized, culturally relevant electronic option for family-centered care when children are going through very early interventions. Parde, who is a member of the Natural Language Processing Laboratory ,  has been focused on developing innovative natural language processing solutions for healthcare applications, but typically for adults, especially older adult populations. Adding a new target audience—children—is exciting, she said. “This has been a dream collaboration so far,” Parde said. “I love working on projects with tangible real-world impact, and this project supplies that in spades!” Parde said the technologies she and Khetani develop will have broader applications, not only for healthcare but also in more general settings. This is Parde’s first NSF grant. Modified on October 20, 2021 Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>