<DOCNO>3196</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/researchers-catalyst-award-to-unlock-vision-secrets</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Researcher’s catalyst award to unlock vision secrets David Brazy | Posted on September 03, 2020 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Many of the most prevalent eye diseases in people go undetected until the damage starts to affect a person’s vision. Once this point is reached, treatment becomes harder and sometimes the vision loss may be impossible to reverse. Xincheng Yao, a Richard and Loan Hill Professor of Bioengineering, and members of his Biomedical Optics and Functional Imaging Laboratory The CBC Catalyst Award , which is given to scientists in the Chicago area who are pursuing cutting-edge and high-risk/high-reward research, will give Yao and Tiffany M. Schmidt of Northwestern University $248,770 to study a recently discovered type of retinal cell in the eye. Yao said researchers discovered that intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglions cells (ipRGCs) are light sensitive. The cells respond to light directly because of the way they express photopigment melanopsin. It was previously thought that only rod and cone photoreceptors could sense light. “A deeper understanding of melanopsin containing ipRGCs is essential for in-depth understanding of the nature of the visual system, and for the development of new and robust methodologies for disease detection,” Yao said. The project calls for close collaboration between researchers at UIC and Northwestern. Yao said his team will be responsible for creating instruments to image the ipRGC cells, optimization of the imaging techniques, and experimental validation, while Schmidt’s team will oversee animal models, experimental design, data analysis, and interpretation. Yao hopes that the project will allow the researchers to capture direct images of physiological activation in ipRGCs, something that has never been done before. “The success of this project will provide a revolutionary tool to enable parallel optophysiological monitoring of multiple ipRGCs functioning together,” Yao said. “Compared with the current standards of recording single-cell activity, our proposed methodology will open a unique opportunity to foster advanced study of ipRGCs, with the potential for noninvasive recording in humans.” In addition to his partners at Northwestern, Yao’s team at UIC also includes Taeyoon Son, research assistant professor of Bioengineering and Dingcai Cao, professor of ophthalmology, who will also be crucial contributors on this project. Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>