<DOCNO>3227</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/bioe-undergrad-team-wins-accolades-for-new-wearable-device-to-treat-bruxism</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search BioE undergrad team wins accolades for new wearable device to treat bruxism David Brazy | Posted on May 29, 2020 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link 66 million Americans chronically grind or clench their teeth—and most of them don’t know that they do it. A team of undergraduate bioengineering students are developing a wearable device to help people break the habit. Allison Bayro, Analise Hernandez, and Brandon Sakas worked on creating a wearable oral device called BruxALERT that uses biofeedback to alert users when they are clenching or grinding—a habit called bruxism that can lead to chronic headaches, face and jaw soreness, receding gums, and lesions of the teeth. “This is an important feature as only 3 percent of [people] who suffer from bruxism are aware of this behavior and can consciously stop the habit,” Bayro said. She added that current products on the market such as night guards only address symptoms like enamel wearing but do not target the root of the problem. To clinically test the device, the students are working under the supervisor of Professor Hananeh Esmailbeigi in the Wearable Technology & Sensory Enhancement Laboratory . Nicholas Marjanovic a PhD candidate in the department of bioengineering is also advising the group. Esmailbeigi said the wearable device sends a signal to an app during instances of clenching or grinding, and the app then collects the data and allows users and their doctors to track the progression of this condition over time. The team received a $5,000 grant from the VentureWell Stage I E-Team Program, a training that could help them take their invention from the lab to market. They were also one of the finalists from the 225 applicants at the 2020 Johns Hopkins Healthcare Design Competition this spring. “Our device is in the early stages of development, and the competition was of high caliber. It was an enormous honor to be part it.” Esmailbeigi said. To prepare for the final round of the Johns Hopkins Healthcare Design Competition, which were held virtually this year, the team had to create a seven-minute pitch covering topics such as the intellectual property, research and development strategy and business model as well as preparation for an eight-minute question-and-answer session. Hernandez said this was a nerve-wracking and exciting experience because it was their first time giving a virtual, professional presentation. “Some of the other projects at the competition were well developed and were being preparing to be on the market,” Hernandez said. “It was interesting to see this because hopefully, our project will get to that phase in the future. It was a great learning experience overall, and I feel more confident in presenting our project and answering any questions moving forward.” Despite the inability to work in the laboratory due to social distance rules, the team practiced together every night for weeks and continued to work on the prototype and software at home. Bayro said the project and the competition provided invaluable experience for the team. “This experience was the culmination of my education as I believe that all the learned technical, professional, and soft skills prepared me to partake in the Johns Hopkins Competition,” Bayro said. “I thoroughly recommend that students participate in opportunities like these to apply such knowledge and skills as well as to expand their professional network.” As part of the VentureWell grant, the team will receive virtual training on how to bring an invention to the marketplace later this year and will be able to further develop their prototype. They will then have the opportunity to apply for Stage II, which is a $20,000 grant. All three students plan to continue working in Esmailbeigi’s lab on the BruxALERT the next academic year. “This was really exciting as it was also the same week that we were informed about the transition to online classes for the remaining part of the semester and postponed graduation,” Bayro said. “In light of the changes in the world, the news was incredibly uplifting and exciting.” Modified on May 29, 2020 Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>