<DOCNO>3233</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/new-award-honors-promising-phd-students</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search New award honors promising PhD students Posted on May 18, 2020 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link A new UIC Engineering award recognizes top doctoral students for groundbreaking research across a wide range of fields, which this year include medical diagnostics, power sources for electric vehicles, and robots. Called the Graduate Student Award for Exceptional Research Promise, it is given to PhD students who are within a year of graduating and have demonstrated excellence in scholarship, academic publication, and other research-focused activities. The first seven honorees—representing all six College of Engineering departments—received their awards last week. This recognition goes hand in hand with a core part of UIC’s research mission: training the next generation of research scientists, said Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Venkat Venkatakrishnan “When our students take up careers in research, in both academia and research labs, and become thought leaders in their fields, they are furthering the impact of UIC’s research,” he said. “Ensuring that our students pursue careers in research is an important activity in establishing the legacies of our faculty, research groups, and departments.” College of Engineering Dean Peter Nelson praised the first set of winners. “These initial recipients have set a high bar for this newly established award,” he said. “I look forward to following their research careers in the years ahead.” Venkatakrishnan added that he hopes the awards give the students further momentum as they look toward the next stage of their careers. This year’s winners include: Bioengineering Minhaj Alam Chemical Engineering Leidy Nallely Jimenez Physics of Fluids Civil and Materials Engineering Girish Kumar Computer Science Abhinav Kumar believes that computers should be designed to account for human behavior. His work, advised by Professor Barbara Di Eugenio, is a natural-language interface for creating data visualizations, in this case based on a Chicago crime database. A user simply poses a question: “show me the total crime near Sox Park in winter,” for example, or “I want to see felonies in Lincoln Park in 2019.” A point of a finger calls forth a bar graph, pie chart, or map that illustrates the requested data. Kumar says the system uses contextual information and was programmed using transcriptions of real conversational data. Kumar worked in tech consulting prior to starting the UIC PhD program but wanted to pivot to research and development. While at UIC, Kumar was an intern at Samsung Research on a team that worked on algorithms for Bixby, the company’s voice-powered digital assistant. After graduation, Kumar hopes to return to industry and remain at the intersection of artificial intelligence and natural language processing. Electrical and Computer Engineering Nikhil Kumar , advised by Professor Sudip Mazumder, is developing a high-powered supercharger for electric vehicles. It would represent a significant improvement over conventional products, charging a vehicle in 30 minutes to allow 300 to 400 miles of driving, compared with current products that require half a day to achieve a charge that allows a 250- to 300-mile range. Kumar’s product would meet a power level of 60 kilowatts, weigh about 24 pounds, and cost $3,000 to produce. Kumar’s research team built a 20-kilowatt prototype last year and hopes to scale up to the 60-kilowatt target by the end of 2020. After he graduates, Kumar hopes to work in research and development for a company that makes electric vehicle chargers, putting his UIC research to use in industry. Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Tara Foroozan Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Ali Zamani Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>