<DOCNO>3289</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/founder-of-two-student-organizations-powering-up-for-graduation-professional-career</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Founder of two student organizations powering up for graduation, professional career By Andrea Poet | Posted on December 06, 2019 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link For UIC student Amru Qutub, power is what gets him through the day. Qutub, a senior in the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department, will graduate in December, leaving behind two vibrant student organizations he founded on campus. Qutub is the president and co-founder of Vehicle Electronics and System Engineering, or VESE, a group that aims to “expand the knowledge of students interested in vehicle electronics and systems engineering through hands on projects and close work with companies.” The group has about 40 members, and works in collaboration with other student organizations on various mechanical projects. Their latest project? An electric formula racecar. Currently the group has been implementing their software on radio-controlled cars, and then working on the engineering and design of the cars. He said the biggest challenges to date has been torque vectoring on the wheels, which once resolved will improve the performance of the vehicle dramatically. There are national and international competitions, the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Formula Electric and other competitions. The team hopes to compete in 2020. While cars may seem the domain of mechanical engineers, Qutub says the club is about half mechanical engineering students and half ECE students. “Our project requires a lot of electromechanical integration on the racecar. Motors, controllers for different parts of the system—that is all ECE,” Qutub said. Qutub said VESE “Automotive advances in the industry are really improving now. Vehicle electronics and electromechanical systems are making a big difference for consumers,” Qutub said. “That’s where a lot of the job are. The industry is growing a lot.” When Qutub likes to unwind, it’s with the other student club he founded, the Power Lifting Club . He started the group in his freshman year, and the team is funded by Campus Recreation. The Power Lifting Club has approximately 40 members, a dozen or so who compete. “The Power Lifting Club is really different than VESE group I run. It’s more like a hobby,” Qutub said. “It’s been a fun time. So many people have joined, male and female.” The team has done well in competition: in the past two years the club has been ranked first in Illinois, and third in the nation. Several of the competitors are in the top five in the nation in their respective groups. After graduation, Qutub, who hails from Des Plaines, will work for ComEd in their high voltage transmission and substation engineering group. Qutub started with the company three summers ago, and works in their transmission engineering group. “I’m really looking forward to starting full-time with them in January,” Qutub said. It appears Qutub’s career is clearly off to a powerful start. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide UIC's Power Lifting Club Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Vehicle Electronics and System Engineering (VESE) student organization Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>