<DOCNO>3381</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/associate-professor-devroye-named-ieee-information-theory-distinguished-lecturer</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Associate Professor Devroye named IEEE Information Theory Distinguished Lecturer by Andrea Poet and David Staudacher | Posted on June 07, 2019 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Natasha Devroye, an associate professor and director of undergraduate studies in the electrical and computer engineering department at UIC, has been selected as a 2019-2020 Information Theory Society Distinguished Lecturer. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Information Theory Society established the Distinguished Lecturer Program to promote interest in information theory by supporting chapters who wish to invite prominent information theory researchers to give talks at their events. The free talks are mainly geared toward other researchers and college students. Information theory studies the measurement, storage, and transmission of information. It is the mathematical theory behind communications including cellphones, radio transmission, and the internet. “What information theory does is look at the fundamental limits on how fast you should be able to communicate,” said Devroye. “I see it as a guide or benchmark for industry.” Consumers and industry experts continuously want technology pushed to the next level as they seek more data and faster speeds. There are more users, and they are streaming video, so they are demanding more bandwidth over wireless devices. Unfortunately, wireless channels are some of the hardest to deal with. “Transmitting over a wireless medium is difficult. You have wireless interference from all the other devices that are transmitting – cell phones, base stations, etc. Wireless signals will bounce off something, and you will see reflections, or shadows,” said Devroye, co-director of the Networks Information Communications and Engineering Systems Laboratory at UIC. “You can be in one place and have one bar on your phone, and step over a meter and you have four bars. These are the effects of the wireless channel that are so variable and location-dependent. It’s a hard medium to communicate over, yet, people want wireless communications and more of it. The question is how to squeeze more data through the same amount of fixed spectra.” Devroye has been involved with the Information Theory Society Still, Devroye said the announcement of the award came as a surprise. Her appointment took effect Jan. 1, and will last two years. Devroye gave her first three distinguished lectures in Texas in April. Devroye’s research was made possible mainly by nine National Science Foundation (NSF) grants (she has been the principal investigator on eight of these nine) including the prestigious NSF CAREER grant, and three new NSF grants starting in 2019. You can learn more about Professor Devroye’s research on her UIC profile page . Modified on September 23, 2019 Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>