<DOCNO>3404</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/mee-graduate-wins-chancellors-student-service-and-leadership-award</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search MEE graduate wins Chancellor’s Student Service and Leadership Award by David Staudacher | Posted on May 13, 2019 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Hardik Miyani, a Masters of Energy Engineering (MEE) graduate, recently won the 47 th The award recognizes outstanding student leaders and volunteers who, while maintaining high academic achievement, demonstrate a commitment to the UIC community through participation in student organizations and campus activities and throughout the greater Chicagoland area through active service and community engagement. “Congratulations to Hardik on a well-deserved honor,” said William A. Ryan, clinical associate professor and director of the MEE program. “A December 2018 graduate of the Master of Energy Engineering program, he was an active, hard-working student with many accomplishments, and the most active president that ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers) branch has had in many years.” As the 2018 president of the UIC ASHRAE Branch, Miyani increased student membership and organized technical presentations in which industry professionals shared their expertise. He volunteered to speak with parents and high school graduates about ASHRAE and career opportunities in engineering, and served on the planning committee as an active member of the Young Engineers in ASHRAE (YEA) Illinois chapter. While participating in extra-curricular activities, he ensured that his studies were not affected and maintained a grade point average of 4.0 during his graduate studies In addition to the Chancellor’s Student Service and Leadership Award, Miyani won three awards during 2018, which included the International District Energy Association (IDEA) John Gray Award, Midwest Renewable Energy Association (MREA) & Straubel Foundation Clean Energy Leadership Award, and the ASHRAE Illinois Chapter Scholarship. After graduation, Miyani landed a position at ESD Global, which is a Chicago-based consulting-engineering firm focused on the delivery of high-performance buildings. The company delivers value by creating healthy and productive environments and designing facilities that are more cost effective, flexible, reliable, and sustainable. The Master of Energy Engineering program in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC is a unique program designed for those interested in the growing energy industry. The curriculum provides a diverse course offering reflecting industry concerns such as energy efficiency, creating buildings that are energy efficient, power generation, the grid, management of engineering projects, HVAC design, renewable energy, and other energy issues. All classes are taught in the evening on the UIC campus. Learn more about the program at http://energyengineering.uic.edu . Modified on June 02, 2019 Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>