<DOCNO>3485</DOCNO>
<URL>https://engineering.uic.edu/news-stories/phd-candidate-gaining-industry-experience-via-nsf-intern-grant</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago College of Engineering Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Support UIC menu Expand About menu Eyebrow menu Give Careers Alumni UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search PhD candidate gaining industry experience via NSF INTERN grant by David Staudacher | Posted on March 08, 2019 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link PhD candidate Alireza Ahmadian Yazdi has taken his studies outside the laboratory and into the working world. The MIE student jumped at the opportunity to take on a five-month internship at California-based Beckman Coulter, a leading company in biomedical instruments. Ahmadian Yazdi, who is working on his PhD under the direction of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) Assistant Professor Jie Xu in the Microfluidics Laboratory http://www.inrf.uci.edu/cadmim /). The grant is geared toward fostering the growth of a globally competitive and diverse research workforce and advancing the scientific and innovation skills of the nation. It provides funding for non-academic research internships for graduate students to support career opportunities in any sector of the U.S. economy, and ensures graduate students are well prepared for the 21st-century workforce. “My experience with the Global Innovation Team at Beckman Coulter is teaching me a new thought-process,” said Ahmadian Yazdi. “Solutions to pressing issues in healthcare are mostly market-driven as opposed to driven by new technologies. In fact, existing technologies might be further ahead of the market needs. Hopefully, this new mindset helps me with the rest of my PhD thesis, as well as future career.” “As a PhD student, he is not only focused on fundamental research, but also learning practical industry experience, making him a well-rounded engineer,” said Xu. “It is important that graduate students supported by NSF grants be provided opportunities to develop skills that prepare them to be successful for a broad range of academic and non-academic career paths. In addition to deep and broad preparation in their technical areas of expertise, skills and knowledge regarding communication, innovation and entrepreneurship, leadership and management, and policy and outreach are becoming increasingly valuable to enter any sector of the workforce.” The ultimate goal of Ahmadian Yazdi’s PhD thesis is to overcome existing challenges in healthcare. To achieve this, his method is mainly proposing technological solutions. However, knowing what these challenges are and whether the solutions are proper answers to them can be very difficult with a lack of industry experience. The internship is helping him to understand different perspectives. “It is different in our way of problem solving. In the lab, we solve problems by proposing new technologies or modifying existing ones. However, this can be a relatively high-risk approach for industry”, said Ahmadian Yazdi. “Therefore, [at the internship] we intend to propose solutions that are most preferable for current, and future potential customers. The solutions can be quite simple, yet fit greatly into the existing workflows.” While he is gaining new perspectives at the internship, Ahmadian Yazdi credits UIC as well as CADMIM with preparing him for the position and the working world when he graduates. “UIC gave me the opportunity to study for a PhD and take part in top-notch research projects,” he said. “I definitely recommend UIC’s PhD program for those looking for a PhD position. I work at two labs, Microfluidics Lab in the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department and Dr. Vikas Berry’s Research Lab in Chemical Engineering Department. Both departments are highly research-oriented and there is a growing interest in high impact and ground-breaking research projects. I am confident that this atmosphere would benefit current and future PhD students.” “CADMIM is a unique innovation ecosystem where faculty, students, NSF, and companies work together in developing integrated lab-on-a-chip solutions to real world problems,” he said. “I have been very fortunate to be involved in a CADMIM project. These industry-supported research projects are more practical and they are aiming toward creating intellectual property. In fact, Beckman Coulter is an industrial member of CADMIM, and they hosted my internship through CADMIM.” Learn more about the MIE Graduate studies program at https://mie.uic.edu/graduate/. Learn more about Professor Xu’s research at Microfluidics Laboratory . Learn more about CADMIM at http://www.inrf.uci.edu/cadmim . Learn more about Beckman Coulter at www.beckman.com. Modified on August 12, 2019 Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact College of Engineering 851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3463 uic-engr@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>