<DOCNO>557</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/contact/communicating-on-campus/submit-announcements</URL>
<TEXT>Submit Announcements | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Submit Announcements My name * First Last My email * Announcement type * Standard Research Studies Official DDDH Hidden Post Category - Announcements Announcements Post Category - Research Studies Research Studies Hidden Post Category - DDDH del Uncategorized Post Category - Official * select your unit Chancellor officials Provost officials VC Admin Services officials VC Advancement officials VC Budget, HR and Financial Administration officials VC Diversity, Equity and Engagement officials VC Health Affairs officials VC Innovation officials VC Research Officials VC SMC VC Student Affairs officials Announcement (standard) Announcements are paid promotional messages that are posted to the UIC Today site. They are restricted to events on campus or sponsored by campus units. Announcements can be submitted by anyone with a UIC email for a fee of $125 . Research Studies Announcements Research Studies Announcements are paid promotional messages that are posted to the UIC Today site. They are restricted to events on campus or sponsored by campus units. Announcements can be submitted by anyone with a UIC email for a fee of $125 . Official massmails Official university communications are reserved for messages from university administrative offices such as the University President, Chancellor, Provost or other Vice Chancellors. Selecting "Official" does not guarantee official processing. If your message is found inappropriate for Official use, you will be asked to provide a CFOAP number for billing as a standard web Announcement. Please send questions about Official messages to publicaffairs@uic.edu . All Official messages are processed at no charge to the requesting department and will be distributed within 24 hours of submission DDDH DDDH email communications are sent to UIC Deans, Directors, and Department Heads for a flat fee of $35. Administrative-related messages only, please. DDDH messages will be distributed within 24 hours of submission We are unable to attach files to DDDH email communications. We can, however, upload a file to the server and place a download link in the message body. Preferred announcement date * Month Day Year at this time * : Hours Minutes AM PM AM/PM Payment method * CFOAP (campus units) Check (UIC student groups only) CFOAP * Upload image (automatically resized to 1000px wide, set at top of post) Accepted file types: jpg, jpeg, png, gif. File Caption This "caption" area is mandatory for web accessibility. Please describe the image and any text it may contain. This information will be presented as a hidden ALT attribute behind the image. UIC reply-to email address * Enter Email Confirm Email Announcement Title * Announcement details * Enter your content here. Please don't paste html into this space. For more information, please contact: Contact Name (will be published on web) * First Last Contact Email (will be published on web) * Optional additional contact information (will be published on web) Upload file to distribute with DDDH email Accepted file types: doc, docx, Max. file size: 100 MB. PLEASE NOTE: not Audience * Faculty Staff Students Faculty and Staff All Publish on today.uic.edu? Yes No Should this announcement also be published on today.uic.edu? Special instructions Messages will be distributed within 24 hours of submission at the discretion of Strategic Marketing and Communications. Your submission may be edited for content.* * I have read and understand the above. Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>