<DOCNO>605</DOCNO>
<URL>https://diversity.uic.edu/about/diversity-strategic-plan</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Community menu Expand Education menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand Students menu Eyebrow menu Office of the Chancellor Office of the Provost Donate UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement About Diversity Strategic Plan Diversity Strategic Plan Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link In the fall of 2008, the Provost sought nominations from Deans and Vice Chancellors of individuals to serve on a campus-level Diversity Strategic Thinking and Planning Committee (DSTP). The committee met with campus constituencies to gain perspective on campus diversity issues. Each campus activity was assessed to find opportunities to further support diversity. They were assessed in six areas: (1) Environment/Climate, (2) Faculty, (3) Research, (4) Staff, (5) Students, (6) Teaching and Learning. Students were also encouraged to participate in the DSTP process through the creation of a Student Advisory Committee. The DSTP was split into two phases: Phase I started in January of 2009. The goal of the first stage, Diversity Strategic Thinking, was to consider how UIC interprets, accomplishes, assesses, and utilizes our diversity. A formal document outlining campus diversity was drafted in early 2010, called Through the Lens of Diversity. Current activities and future priorities were shared and discussed in a series of town hall meetings*. Communications with students, faculty, and staff provided the foundation for stage two of the process in which a campus and college/unit Diversity Strategic Plan were developed. Phase II began in June of 2010. The second stage, Diversity Strategic Planning, articulates the university’s diversity agenda. The university’s vision, mission, goals, and aims were outlined, along with the programs, policies, and activities to guide UIC toward their goals. Each college and administrative unit has a Diversity Strategic Plan that communicates their distinctive agenda, collaboratively called Mosaic for UIC Transformation. Also included in this phase were approaches and mechanisms for regular assessment of progress and effectiveness. About Back to main content Advancing Racial Equity ARE Strategic Planning Advancing Racial Equity: Progress Awards Contact Us Diversity Strategic Plan Events Leadership News Team University of Illinois Chicago UIC Quick Guide U and I Care Network Dean of Students Counseling Center Cultural Centers Office for Access and Equity Resources for Undocumented Students Office of International Services Supplier Diversity For further access to UIC resources Policies UIC Nondiscrimination Policy Footer Contact Us Join Our Mailing List Button Menu Donate Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2631 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: 312-355-1308 Fax: 312-996-5067 diversity@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>