<DOCNO>617</DOCNO>
<URL>https://sexualmisconduct.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Sexual Misconduct Main Menu Expand About Us menu Expand Policy menu Expand Support menu Expand Education & Training menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and respectful learning, living and working environment for its students, faculty, and staff members. When individuals experience sexual harassment and sexual misconduct (i.e. sexual assault, stalking, dating violence, domestic violence), their sense of safety and trust is violated and this can significantly interfere with their success at the university. Our community expects that all interpersonal relationships and interactions – especially those of an intimate nature – are based upon values of mutual respect, dignity, responsibility, open communication, and clear consent. Responding to incidents of sexual misconduct can be challenging, whether you are the person harmed or someone trying to help. All of us play a vital role in creating a safer, more caring campus culture in which bias, harassment, and violence have no place—and every member of our community is free to flourish. The Prohibition of Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct policy The university takes all complaints and accusations of sexual misconduct seriously. We welcome your involvement in our mission to foster a campus environment that strives to prevent sexual misconduct and promotes the reporting of sexual misconduct, compassionate responses to survivors of sexual violence, and equitable treatment of all complainants and respondents. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Title IX Sexual Misconduct Training Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The UIC Sexual Misconduct website serves as a comprehensive resource for students, faculty, and staff. The site includes information about the UIC Prohibition of Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct policy and procedures, helpful resources, and the university’s prevention and training programs. Please look through this site to access critical information you may need such as: how to report an incident of sexual misconduct; how to get help; how to help someone who has been affected by sexual misconduct; campus and community resources; and information about rights and confidentiality. The website was created by University representatives from the Office for Access and Equity, Office of the Dean of Students, UIC Police, University Counsel, Campus Advocacy Network, Counseling Center, Campus Housing, Wellness Center, Office of International Services, Campus Programs, Campus Auxiliary Services, and Public Affairs. University of Illinois Chicago Contact Title IX Coordinator 809 S. Marshfield, 717 MAB (MC 602), Chicago IL 60612 Phone: (312) 996-8670 titleix@uic.edu Social Media Accounts UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>