<DOCNO>618</DOCNO>
<URL>http://financialaid.uic.edu/consumer-information/department-education-complaint-process</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Main Menu Expand Cost menu Expand Financial Aid Steps menu Expand Types of Aid menu Expand Forms menu Expand FAQ menu Expand Consumer Information menu Eyebrow menu Scholarships UIC Connection Student Affairs UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Department of Education Complaint Process Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Consumer Information Department of Education Complaint Process Department of Education Complaint Process The University of Illinois at Chicago is committed to respecting all members of the University community and providing a quality educational experience for all students. Further, federal regulations require institutions of higher education to disclose information for filing complaints. The information below is intended to provide both institutional and external contact information to current and prospective students. Academic Concerns Students are encouraged to contact their college office to seek advice. The Student Handbook , the undergraduate catalog , and the graduate catalog If complaints cannot be resolved at the college level or with the help of Student Ombuds Service (see below), the formal mechanism to register student complaints is through the Student Academic Grievance Procedures . They define an administrative process through which students may seek resolution of complaints or grievances regarding academic standing during their enrollment at UIC. Examples of complaints addressed by this process include but are not limited to grade disputes and program dismissals. Note that these procedures may not be used for decisions made as a result of the Student Conduct Process, described below. Other Complaints If a complaint cannot be resolved within the college or the student prefers to speak to someone outside of the college, students have access to several services within the Office of the Dean of Students (DOS). The Student Ombuds Service The Student Conduct Process student misconduct incident report academic integrity incident report Student Disciplinary Policy . The Office for Access and Equity established reporting process on the OAE website . UIC is committed to maintaining a barrier-free environment so that individuals with disabilities can fully access programs, services, and all activities at UIC. Students with complaints or concerns about accessibility Online Report of UIC Accessibility Issues UIC Disability Resources website . The Disability Resource Center (DRC) receives these reports and follows up with different units on campus based on the nature of the complaint. If the student experiences discrimination based on disability it should be reported directly to the Office of Access and Equity (OAE). External Resources If a student's complaint cannot be resolved by the University, a complaint may be filed with the Illinois Board of Higher Education , which regulates higher education institutions in Illinois, through their Complaint System ; or the student may contact the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) , UIC's regional accrediting agency, through their Complaint Process . Online Education Complaint Resolution Students enrolled in Online or Distance Education courses are encouraged to contact their respective college office to seek advice. Since the University of Illinois at Chicago has been approved as an institutional participant in the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) initiative by the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA), students enrolled from participating SARA states, as indicated by the State Authorization webpage , follow the SARA Complaint Resolution Process . Such students may contact the Illinois Board of Higher Education (the Illinois SARA portal agency) with complaints that were not resolved through the student campus complaint procedures described above by accessing the IBHE online complaint system . Students enrolled in programs in states outside of SARA contact their own state agencies with complaints that were not resolved through the student UIC campus complaint procedures described above. Online students with questions about complaint procedures may also contact UIC Extended Campus at onlineinfo@uic.edu (312) 355-0423 . Listed below are the state agencies for states or U.S. territories not currently participating in SARA. California California Bureau of Private Postsecondary Education PO Box 980818 bppe@dca.ca.gov http://www.bppe.ca.gov/forms_pubs/complaint.pdf Florida Florida Commission on Independent Education 325 W. Gaines Street, Suite 1414 Commissioner@fldoe.org http://www.fldoe.org/cie/complaint.asp Massachusetts Massachusetts Board of Higher Education One Ashburton Place http://www.mass.edu/forstudents/complaints/complaintprocess.asp New Jersey New Jersey Commission on Higher Education PO Box 542 https://www.state.nj.us/treas/highereducation/contactus.shtml New Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce Development 1 John Fitch Plaza, PO Box 110 schoolapprovalunit@dol.state.nj.us Conflict Resolution Questionnaire New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs 124 Halsey Street http://www.njconsumeraffairs.gov/Pages/File-a-Complaint.aspx New York New York Office of College and University Evaluation New York State Education Department 5 North Mezzanine ocueinfo@mail.nysed.gov Student Complaint Procedures New York State Department of State Division of Consumer Protection Consumer Assistance Unit 5 Empire State Plaza, Suite 2101 Student Complaint Procedures Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Council on Higher Education PO Box 1900 787.641.7100 Puerto Rico Department of Justice PO 9020192 Consumer Information Back to main content Academic Programs Department of Education Complaint Process Financial Aid Information Semester Withdrawals General Institutional Information CARES Act HEERF Disclosure CRRSAA HEERF II Disclosure ARP HEERF III Disclosure HEERF Disclosure – Institutional Quarterly Reports Health, Safety and Security Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data Student Outcomes Voter Registration Notice of Availability of Institutional and Financial Aid Information Contact Information for Assistance in Obtaining Institutional or Financial Aid Information University of Illinois Chicago Quick Links FAFSA my UIC College of Law College of Medicine Office of VA Pop-Up Pantry RESOURCES FinAid.org ISAC National Student Loan Database System (NSLDS) Federal Student Aid on the Web Student Money Management Center Consumer Information Contact Us TOOLS Enrollment Verification Direct Loan Entrance Counseling Direct Loan Master Promissory Note (MPN) Promissory Note for Campus Loans Net Price Calculator Footer Buttons FAQ Contact Us Glossary of Terms Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: money@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>