<DOCNO>641</DOCNO>
<URL>https://researchguides.uic.edu/az.php</URL>
<TEXT>Databases Skip to Main Content Your browser is unsupported UIC.edu Home University Library UIC.edu Home University Library the content of this page , the main menu , the secondary menu , the site search form the site home page . University Library Main Menu Help Collections Articles Books & Media Digital Images UIC Image Collections Maps & GIS Special Collections & University Archives Finding Aids Rare Books Theses, Dissertations & UIC Publications Libraries Chicago-Daley Hours & Location Faculty & Staff Chicago-Health Sciences Hours & Location Faculty & Staff Peoria-Health Sciences Hours & Location Faculty & Staff Rockford-Health Sciences Hours & Location Faculty & Staff Urbana-Health Sciences Hours & Location Faculty & Staff About Events News Jobs & Careers Directory Library Policies Eyebrow menu Contact Us My Accounts Give to the Library UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map UIC Library Collections Databases Databases Find the best library databases for your research.  To report any issues, please email Electronic Resources . Toggle search filters navigation Database Subject Filter All Subjects Urban Planning & Public Affairs Special Collections & University Archives Sociology Social Work Social Sciences Residency & Fellowships Reference & Interdisciplinary Public Health Psychology Political Science Physics Physical Therapy Philosophy & Religion Pharmacy Performing Arts Patient Education Occupational Therapy Nursing Medicine Math & Computer Science Maps and GIS Latin American & Latino Studies Languages & Literature Kinesiology & Nutrition International Studies History Graduate Medical Education Government Information Global Asian Studies Evidence Based Practice Engineering Education Earth & Environmental Sciences Disability & Human Development Digital Scholarship Dentistry Data Management Copyright & Scholarly Publishing Communication Clinical Clerkships Classics & Mediterranean Studies Citation Management Chemistry Business & Economics Black Studies Biomedical Sciences Biomedical & Health Information Sciences Biological Sciences Asian-American Studies Art & Art History Area Studies Architecture & Design Applied Health Sciences Database Types Filter All Database Types Abstracts/Citations/Indexes Articles Clinical Guidelines Data & Statistics Dictionaries & Encyclopedias Directory Dissertations & Theses Drug Information Resources E-books Exam Prep/Study Guides Images Media (Audio, Video) News & Newspapers Point-of-Care Tools Primary Source Collections Tests & Measurements Webstore Database Vendors Filter All Vendors / Providers AACR AAI AAIDD AANS Accessible Archives ACLS Adam Matthew Digital AIMS AIP Alexander Street Press Allen Press Alliance for Strong Families and Communities AlphaMed Press AM Digital American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) American Chemical Society (ACS) American Economic Associatin (AEA) American Geophysical Union (AGU) American Institute of Physics (AIP) American Library Association (ALA) American Mathematical Society (AMS) American Medical Association American National Biography American Pharmacists Association American Physical Society (APS) American Physiological Society Journals American Psychiatric Association Publishing American Psychological Association American Society for Microbiology (ASM) American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) ARTstor ASLO ASME Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Association of Research Libraries (ARL) ASTM Bibliographie der Deutschen Sprach und Literaturwissenschaft (BDSL) BioMed Central BioOne Braintrack Brepols Brill British Cartographic Society British Library Board California State University Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre Cambridge University Press CARLI Cartography Associates Catholic University Eichstätt-Ingolstadt Cengage Learning Center for Research Libraries Chadwyck-Healey Chronicle of Higher Education CIOS City of Chicago CLOCKSS Coherent Digital CollegeSource Columbia University Cook County Cornell University Cornell University Library Credo Reference CRL Directory of Open Access Journals Duke University Press Dun & Bradstreet ebrary EBSCOhost Ecological Society of America (ESA) Economic & Poltiical Weekly (EPW) Edinburgh University Press EDP Sciences Education Research Global Observatory Education Week EDUCAUSE eHRAF EIU Elsevier Emerald Publishing Emory University Encyclopædia Britannica Ergobservatory.info Euromonitor International European Mathematical Society (EMS) Faulkner Information Services FDA Federal Funds Information for States (FFIS) Feminae: Medieval Women and Gender Index FIZ Karlsruhe GmbH Flying Publisher Frost & Sullivan Gale GBV Geographic Research, Inc. Georgetown University Gerontological Society of America Getty GlobalData Google GovDocs Guilford Press Harper's Weekly Hathi Trust HighWire Press HLAS Human Kinetics IBISWorld IBM Watson ICPSR IEEE Illinois Researcher Information Service (IRIS) Indiana University INFORMS Ingenta Inside Higher Ed Institute of Education Sciences International Medical Press International Monetary Fund (IMF) Internet Archive IOP Publishing IPA Source Iter University of Toronto Libraries J-STAGE JoVE JSTOR Kanopy LabX Media Group LexisNexis Library of Congress Lynda.com ManyBooks Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. Massachusetts Medical Society McGraw-Hill Medical Letter, Inc. MedicalJournals.se Medici.org MedicinesComplete Merck Mergent Mintel MIT Press Modern Language Association NARIC National Rehabilitation Information Center National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) National Consumer Law Center, Inc. Naxos Digital Services, Inc. NewsBank Northeastern University Northwestern University OCLC Office of the Illinois Secretary of State Open Humanities Press Optical Society of America (OSA) Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development  (OECD) Oxford University Press Palgrave Macmillan Persée Peterson's Philosophy Documentation Center PitchBook Data, Inc. Plunkett's PopLine Portland Press Princeton/Stanford Working Papers in Classics PrivCo Project Euclid Project MUSE ProQuest Red Books LLC REDBOOKS ReferenceUSA RELX Research Connections Research Papers in Economics (RePEc) Rittenhouse Book Distributers, Inc. Rittenhouse Book Distributors, Inc. Rock's Backpages Rowman Littlefield Publishing Group. Royal Anthropological Institute Royal Pharmaceutical Society Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) Royal Society Publishing S. Karger AG SAGE Salem Press Scientific Electronic Library Online (SciELO) SIBC SLACK Social Explorer Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Journals (SIAM) Springer Springer Nature Stanford University STAT!Ref State University of New York Swank Motion Pictures, Inc. Taylor & Francis TeachingBooks.net Teton Data Systems The HistoryMakers The New York Times TheNew York Times Therapeutic Research Center Thieme Third Iron Thomson Reuters Trip Database, Ltd Truven Health Analyticss Tufts University U.S. Department of Agriculture U.S. Department of Commerce U.S. Department of Energy U.S. Department of Transportation U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO) U.S. National Libary of Medicine United States Pharmacopeia and The National Formulary (USP–NF) University Library of Regensburg University of Adelaide University of California Regents University of Chicago Press University of Illinois University of illinois at Chicago University of Michigan University of Minnesota University of Pennsylvania University of Virginia Press University of York Uniworld USA.gov Vault.com Inc. Walter de Gruyter Western Michigan University Wiley William S. Hein & Co., Inc. Wolters Kluwer World Bank World Bank Group DATABASES All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # Clear Filters/Browse All Databases Loading... New / Trial Databases Loading... The following databases are newly acquired or being evaluated for a future subscription. APA PsycTherapy New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database APA PsycTherapy provides clinicians, counselors, and trainees the opportunity to observe candid psychotherapy videos featuring known therapists. This proven counseling training method is an invaluable tool to remain abreast of the latest psychotherapy techniques. Artforum Archive Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Includes six decades of premier news, reporting and commentary about key developments in the art world. Coverage spans all forms of contemporary art, including painting, sculpture, installation, body art, video/audio art, performance art and more. Trial ends September 2023. BBC Landmark Video Collection Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Collection of landmark videos from the BBC. 3 year trial ends September 2022 Black Abolitionist Papers Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database The Black Abolitionist Papers is a five-volume documentary collection culled from an international archival search that turned up over 14,000 letters, speeches, pamphlets, essays, and newspaper editorials by nearly 300 black men and women. 3 year trial ends September 2022 Black Life in America Series 3: 1976-Today (NewsBank) New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database The experience and impact of African Americans as recorded by the news media. Updated daily with new content, Series 3 is essential for navigating the arc of African American history from 1704 through the present day. Business E-books Online Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Business E-books Online is an online database that gathers 500 of the best-known textbooks and reference materials in business education in convenient digital format. 3 year trial ends September 2022 Chicago Defender (2008-current): NewsBank New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Chicago's nationally recognized African American newspaper. Chicago Sun-Times Historical Archive, 1929-1985 New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Research Chicago history through the Chicago Sun-Times Historical Archive. Study trends, issues, events, advertisements, companies and more through historical full newspaper pages from 1929 through 1985. DNSA 58 CIA Covert Operations, Part IV: The Eisenhower Years, 1953-1961 Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Collection focused on a highly active, if checkered, period in the history of the Central Intelligence Agency, during which President Dwight D. Eisenhower authorized numerous clandestine programs around the world. These include Iran 1953, Tibet 1956-57, the Congo beginning in 1960, and the Bay of Pigs, Cuba 1961. Trial ends September 2022 Ebony Magazine Archive New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Ebony Magazine Archive covers civil rights, education, entrepreneurship and other social topics with an African-American focus. It includes more than 800 issues providing a broad view of African-American culture from its first issue in 1945 through 2014. Far Eastern Economic Review Archive (1946-2009) New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database More than 3,000 issues comprising the run of the renowned newsweekly, The Far Eastern Economic Review (1946-2009). Known for its authoritative reporting, this publication was devoted to many facets of the Asia-Pacific region, including politics, economics, international relations, and the arts/culture. Trial ends September 2023. Gerritsen Women's History Collection of Aletta H. Jacobs New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Aletta Jacobs was a Dutch physician and feminist who, along with her husband C.V. Gerritsen began collecting information on women's issues in the late 1800s. Overall, the collection contains more than 4,500 publications from the U.S., the U.K., Canada, New Zealand, and continental Europe. Trial ends September 2023. Latin American Drama Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Latin American Drama is a one-of-a-kind database with plays written by Latin American playwrights in the 19th-21st centuries. 3 year trial ends September 2022 LGBT Thought and Culture Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database This is an online resource hosting books, periodicals, and archival materials documenting LGBT political, social and cultural movements throughout the twentieth century and into the present day. 3 year trial ends September 2022 Los Angeles Times (1881 - 2013): ProQuest Historical Newspapers New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Historical archives of the Los Angeles Times digitized cover-to-cover from 1881 to 2013. Trial ends September 2023. Los Angeles Times (1985-Current) New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Comprehensive coverage back to 1985 is available for one of the leading sources of national and international news. Manuscript Women's Letters and Diaries Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database This collection will bring together 105,000 pages of the personal writings of women of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, displayed as high-quality images of the original manuscripts, Semantically Indexed and online for the first time. 3 year trial ends September 2022 Migration to New Worlds Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database From the century of immigration, through to the modern era, Migration to New Worlds charts the emigration experience of millions across 200 years of turbulent history. 3 year trial ends September 2022 North American City Reports New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Preserves the full text of surveys, budgets, statistical records, case studies, planning documents, training manuals, policy guidelines, reports, and news from the five hundred largest cities in North America. It also includes select materials from hundreds of related agencies and non-governmental organizations. Trial ends December 31, 2022. PitchBook New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Search thousands of private equity and venture capital deals by hundreds of criteria. Use PitchBook to establish benchmarks, find real time data on deals, identify and analyze comparables, and search investor details. Policy Commons New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Policy Commons provides almost 2.5 million fulltext think-tank publications, including policy reports, administrative documents, books, project and campaign documents, working papers and discussion papers, journal articles, press releases, briefs, and brochures. ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Louisville Courier Journal (1830 - 2000) Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Searchable collection of articles published in Louisville's Courier-Journal, covering the years from 1830 to 2000. Trial expires September 2022. ProQuest History Vault: Labor Priests: Progressive Politics and the Catholic Church, John A. Ryan Papers, 1892-1945 New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database John A. Ryan was the foremost social justice advocate and theoretician in the Catholic Church during the first half in the 20th century. Ryan’s relationship with President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal both personally and politically garnered him the nickname "Right Reverend New Dealer." The John A. Ryan Papers span from 1892 to 1945, with a heavy focus on the last twenty years of his life, 1925 to 1945. Trial ends September 2023. ProQuest History Vault: Southern Life and African American History, 1775-1915, Plantation Records, Part 3 New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Consists of collections selected from the holdings of the Southern Historical Collection, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. These collections represent rice, cotton, and sugar plantations in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas. Major collections include Cameron Family Papers, and Pettigrew Family Papers. Trial ends September 2023. ProQuest History Vault: Southern Life and African American History, 1775-1915, Plantation Records, Part 4 New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database The fourth installment of Plantation Records in History Vault focuses on plantations in North Carolina and Virginia while also covering Tennessee, Kentucky, and Alabama. Major series of records in this module document tobacco and cotton plantations in the Tidewater, Coastal Plains, and Piedmont regions of North Carolina. Trial ends September 2023. Queer Pasts New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database A collection of primary source exhibits for students and scholars of queer history and culture. The database uses “queer” in its broadest and most inclusive sense, embracing LGBT topics as well as other sexual and gender formations that are queer. Particular focus is given to perspectives from people of color, trans people and people with disabilities. Trial ends September 2023. U.S. Newsstream‎   (1980-Current) New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database U.S. Newsstream enables users to search the most recent premium U.S. news content, as well as archives which stretch back into the 1980s featuring top newspapers, newswires, blogs, and news sites in active full-text format. Washington Post (1987-Current) New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Comprehensive coverage back to 1987 is available for one of America's most respected newspapers. Women and Social Movements: Development and the Global South, 1919-2019 New Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database This database examines efforts to foster gender equity through expanded economic and social participation of women on a global scale. Covering a century, the database highlights and evaluates activism through individual efforts, organizational initiatives, and socio-cultural projects led by or for women in the Global South. Trial ends September 2023. Loading... Loading... Staff Login Report a problem. title × Close University Library Locations Daley Library 801 S. Morgan Chicago , IL 60607 Phone (312) 996-2724 Health Sciences-Chicago 1750 W. Polk St. Chicago , IL 60612 Circulation (312) 996-8966 Reference (312) 996-9163 Health Sciences-Peoria Peoria , IL 61656 Phone (309) 671-8490 Health Sciences-Rockford 1601 Parkview Ave. Rockford , IL 61107 Phone (815) 395-5650 Health Sciences-Urbana 102 Medical Sciences Building, 506 S. Mathews Urbana , IL 61801 Circulation (217) 333-4893 Reference (217) 244-0607 Faculty services Alumni services Distance student services Accessibility services Social Networking Privacy Policy Campus Links University of Illinois Chicago Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>