<DOCNO>791</DOCNO>
<URL>http://ahs.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>College of Applied Health Sciences | University of Illinois at Chicago the content of this page , the main menu , Google Translate , the site search form the site home page . UIC Logo Applied Health Sciences Search the site UIC Logo Applied Health Sciences Applied Health Sciences Google Translate Main Menu Applying Expand Applying menu Degrees and Deadlines Beyond the Classroom Tuition and Aid Newly Admitted Students Academics Expand Academics menu Departments and Programs Departments and Programs Research Expand Research menu Research Labs and Centers Metabolic Kitchen AHS and COVID-19 Community Services Expand Community Services menu Assistive Technology Unit Developmental Disabilities Family Clinic Healthy Living Clinic Occupational Therapy Faculty Practice Physical Therapy Faculty Practice Resilient Athlete Program Alumni Expand Alumni menu Give to AHS Expand Give to AHS menu Give to AHS Where to Give AHS Alumni Awards Expand AHS Alumni Awards menu Alumni Award Recipients AHS Alumni Board Meet Our Alumni Corporate Partners Program News Events Contact About AHS Expand About AHS menu Anti-Racism and Social Justice Initiatives College News College Calendar Committees Social Media Contact Eyebrow menu Inside AHS AHS Directory Give to AHS UIC menu UIC.edu UI Health Campus Map Search the site UIC Logo College of Applied Health Sciences Applied Health Sciences Educators. We envision a world in which every person can live a healthy and self-determined life. What do you want to achieve? No matter how ambitious your goal, we’ll help you get there. Study it. Learn from skilled educators and researchers who are experts in their fields. Experience it. Gain essential, real-world experience through fieldwork, internships and community engagement opportunities. Live it. Graduate into a transformative career, joining 12,000 alumni who share your vocation to promote the health and independence of others. Dedicated to discovery Our faculty pursues new knowledge that transforms healthcare practice and social systems. What we're researching AHS and COVID-19 Our talented students, faculty and staff are contributing to our growing understanding of COVID-19. From media appearances to research publications, we are proud of our community and the expertise they contribute to our collective knowledge about the pandemic. Improving patient safety Associate professor of biomedical and health information sciences Andrew Boyd is the co-author of the first quantitative study on the divergent scopes of practice for nurses and doctors. The study uniquely leveraged computer science technology to compare individual-level patient care provided by nurses and doctors using information routinely documented in the electronic health record. Providing training to help prevent falls Holding three National Institutes of Health R01 grants simultaneously, assistant professor of physical therapy Tanvi Bhatt is at the forefront of the national movement to understand and prevent injuries associated with falls in the elderly and people with neurological injuries. Healing wounds of diabetes Kinesiology professor Tim Koh is using a $2.2 million grant to study whether a drug taken orally to control blood-sugar levels in diabetic patients may promote wound healing when applied directly to damaged tissue. You'll never know who you'll meet Intelligence, energy and drive are the norm among our students, but the diversity of their personal interests and experiences might surprise you. These are cool people to know. Apply now Washieka Tenieka Torres PhD in Disability Studies, '23 A disability rights scholar, activist and documentarian from the South Bronx in New York City and 2018 UIC Abraham Lincoln Fellowship recipient Angelica Briones BS in Rehabilitation Sciences, ’21 Has completed two minors (disability and human development and nutrition), serves as an ASAP tutor and is on the executive board of many student organizations Alejandro Carrillo MS in Occupational Therapy, '23 Recipient of the prestigious MOLA and Michael Reese Scholars Program Scholarship for his commitment to addressing inequities in Latinx health care Sofia Garcia Martinez MS in Biomedical Visualization, '23 An international student from Mexico with degrees in linguistics and computer science who is interested in game design and development as well as graphic novels for education Ayomide Owoyemi PhD in Biomedical and Health Informatics, '24 Co-founded Wellvis, the company that created a free online COVID-19 triage tool used by the Nigerian government Jennifer Corral MS in Nutrition, '23 Passionate about women's health and recipient of the Katharine S. Middleton Memorial / Chicago Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Scholarship Better together You can’t change the world with tunnel vision. Our diverse programs bring distinct expertise to a shared mission, complementing each other in expected and unexpected ways. Browse our programs Biomedical Visualization Disability and Human Development Health Informatics Health Information Management Kinesiology Nutrition Occupational Therapy Physical Therapy Rehabilitation Sciences Biomedical Visualization &plus; Nutrition &equals; Art and data Students from two programs came together to produce a series of “Stairwell to Health” posters hanging on the stairwell landings in our main building. Nutrition students wrote the health-promoting tips; biomedical visualization students illustrated the advice with impossible-to-ignore graphics. Kinesiology &plus; Nutrition &equals; Healthier together Recognizing the inseparable roles of physical activity and diet in daily health management, our programs in kinesiology and nutrition share a home department in AHS. Undergraduate students majoring in one field often choose a minor in the other. Occupational Therapy &plus; Rehabilitation Sciences &equals; A life-changing career The entry-level degree for a career in OT is a master’s, and our MS program is ranked 4th in the nation by U.S. News & World Report . For undergrads preparing for OT graduate studies, we offer a social-science-based, interdisciplinary bachelor’s degree in rehabilitation sciences. Physical Therapy &plus; Occupational Therapy &equals; Serving the community In 2016, the departments of OT and PT teamed up to develop and deliver training for 300 home care aides at the Chinese American Service League. Led by two professors and 19 students, the training covered techniques for helping seniors with impaired mobility transfer from one seat to another. Nutrition &plus; Kinesiology &equals; A team to "beet" Alumni Austin Robinson ’12 MS KINES and Sofia Sanchez ’12 BS NUT teamed up to bring together their education in kinesiology and nutrition to create Beet Strong, a plant-based nutrition bar high in protein and fiber and made with ingridients which can increase blood flow and lower blood pressure. Disability and Human Development &plus; Physical Therapy &equals; Technology and disability health Kelly Hsieh, associate professor of disability studies, leads “We Walk,” a project to assess the use of technology to promote physical activity in adults with intellectual disabilities and their family caregivers. Collaborator Shane Phillips, a physical therapy professor, brings expertise in the use of wearable monitors. Health Informatics &plus; Rehabilitation Sciences &equals; Cross-disciplinary teaching Health informatics professor Eric Swirsky teaches ethical practice courses in several AHS programs. His class in Ethics, Law and Professionalism in Rehabilitation Sciences is especially popular for students who want to work one-on-one with individuals in vulnerable situations. Health Information Management &plus; Physical Therapy &equals; Class and clinic Every year, several health information management students complete their required practicum at the campus clinic run by our Department of Physical Therapy. Students collect data, perform workflow analyses, support faculty research and more. Rehabilitation Sciences &plus; Disability and Human Development &equals; Redefining interdisciplinary The rehabilitation sciences program draws its curriculum and faculty from every program in the college. Many students in this social-science based major choose a minor in disability and human development. Find your place Experience the challenge of rigorous courses and new perspectives. Learn and grow with the support of peers and mentors. At AHS, no matter where you're from, you’ll feel at home. Apply now View our programs Request info Contact us College of Applied Health Sciences UI Health Logo Quick Links Calendar Directory News Inside AHS Graduation Resources Academic Support and Achievement Program Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Academic Calendar Tools myUIC GoogleApps@UIC Webmail Blackboard Nessie Connect with AHS Contact us Apply Now Give to AHS 1919 W Taylor St, Chicago, IL 60612 312-996-6695 ahsinfo@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Social Media UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC News UI Health Veterans Affairs | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>