<DOCNO>828</DOCNO>
<URL>http://oae.uic.edu</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office for Access and Equity Main Menu Expand Accessibility menu Expand Affirmative Action menu Expand Nondiscrimination menu Expand Culture Change menu Expand Sexual Misconduct menu Eyebrow menu Staff Contacts UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Edit icon File A Report Edit icon Bias Reporting Tool Edit icon Request an Accommodation As part of the Office of the Chancellor, the Office for Access and Equity (OAE), strives to increase access to employment, programs, and services in an environment free of unlawful discrimination and harassment. Dispute Resolution Services (DRS) provides confidential consultation, facilitation, and mediation services to students, faculty, academic and support staff. OAE Statement of Reaffirmation Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade, and countless other members of the Black community have further exposed the racist beliefs, behaviors, and systems that Black people experience in America. The Office for Access and Equity reaffirms our commitment to cultivate an environment where our Black community members experience racial equity as a reality and not an aspiration. We denounce racism against all groups and will continue to provide support and resources for those who are impacted by harassment or discrimination. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The U.S. Department of Education Releases Proposed Changes to Title IX Regulations, Invites Public Comment Posted on August 23, 2022 Governor Pritzker Signs CROWN Act Into Law Protecting  Against Hair Discrimination Posted on August 04, 2022 EEOC Condemns Violence Against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States Posted on April 11, 2021 Campus Update on Revised Sexual Misconduct Comprehensive Policy Posted on August 27, 2020 Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC Online Events Accessibility Guide Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Go to slide 6 Go to slide 7 Go to slide 8 Go to slide 9 Go to slide 10 Go to slide 11 Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide On December 2nd, D4DI Award Giving Ceremony 2020, Associate Chancellor, Caryn Bills one of four featured guests Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Caryn Bills met with Connecting Dots International- CDI to discuss inclusion goals at UIC Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide https://medium.com/@ADA25AdvLeaders/meet-the-leaders-688b9c712660 On December 12th, ADA 25 Advancing Leadership announced its class of 21 Fellows for 2020, the largest class in its five-year history. These accomplished leaders represent a cross-section of professionals from the region’s nonprofit, government, corporate and philanthropic sectors, including UIC's Disability Services Specialist, Hugo Trevino Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide UIC Police offer women’s self-defense courses. Click for more information! Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Michael Diaz (4th from the left) December 5, 2017: Michael Diaz, Executive Associate Director, served on a panel at the "Standing Up for Dignity and Respect: An IDHR Panel Discussion Honoring Human Rights Day". Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Chorlatte Mack Aug 30, 2017: Title IX FAQs and You. OAE staff handed out goodies and spoke with students at the UIC Weeks of Welcome event. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Danielle Earls Aug. 24, 2017: UIC Weeks of Welcome. OAE welcomes all new and returning students to campus! Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Photo by Danielle Earls April 19, 2017: Break the Silence Rally.  The Office for Access and Equity joined the rally to show support, along with UIC Women’s Leadership and Resource Center/Campus Advocacy Network and the UIC Undergraduate Student Government. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide August 18, 2022: New Faculty Orientation. OAE handed provided resources and spoke with new faculty about OAE's role on campus. Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Sophia Hamilton (DRC Director) was recipient of the Rising Star Award Go to the next slide Go to the previous slide Kelly Gerhardt (Disability Service Specialist) was the recipient of the Award of Merit University of Illinois Chicago Main Menu Accessibility Affirmative Action Nondiscrimination Culture Change Sexual Misconduct Policies Resources Coronavirus (COVID-19) Social Media Accounts Contact 809 S. Marshfield Ave., Room 717, Chicago, IL 60612-7207 Phone: (312) 996-8670 oae@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>