<DOCNO>876</DOCNO>
<URL>https://today.uic.edu/resources/faculty-and-staff-resources</URL>
<TEXT>Faculty and Staff Resources | UIC Today UIC Logo Campus News Official Communications UIC in the news Academics & Research Events Resources Current Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Online Learning Resources and Support Photography/Video Social Media Account Request Form UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices COVID-19 Communications Frequently Asked Questions Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing Isolation and exposure guidelines Contact Communicating On Campus Sending Announcements / DDDH UIC Social Media Directory Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources General Resources Faculty Affairs Information and resources for faculty careers. Human Resources Resources for your career development, polices, benefits and more. Office of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Keep informed on Provost initiatives and faculty resources Academic Resources Blackboard Create, administer, track and deliver digital content via course sites. Cultural Centers The Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change help make UIC a welcoming and inclusive place for all students, faculty and staff. Catalog, calendars and course descriptions Academic programs, requirements, policies and more Class rosters Log in to request a roster list. Course evaluations Online student evaluation of teaching program. Final Exam Schedule For all colleges except health sciences professional colleges. Learning Technology Solutions Resources and services to empower faculty to design and deliver technology-enhanced education. Lecture capture Support and access to Echo360 lecture capture technology. Registrar Faculty Self Service, calendars, classes, grades, registration and the UIC Student Records Policy. Schedule of Classes See schedule for current semester. My.UIC Central location for many university apps, including grading. Research@UIC Resources, policies and compliance information for researchers Employee and Benefits Benefits Benefits overview. Careers at UIC Resources for the life of your UIC career. CHILDREN’S CENTER Employee Holiday Calendar Schedule of approved employee holidays. Office for Access and Equity Striving to increase access to employment, programs and services in an environment free of unlawful discrimination and harassment. System HR Employees can view information on benefits, policies, more training. UI HEALTH HR Log in to employee portal. UNIVERSITY HR TOOLS Time entry, HireTouch, vacation and sick leave, performance appraisal system. UIC Human Resources Resources for your career development, polices, benefits and more. Technology Resources Technology Solutions Your center for computing, Wi-Fi, learning technology and more. Community and Collaboration Faculty and staff email and calendaring services, web-conferencing tools, web hosting, and telephone services. Get Tech Support Support resources includes the UIC Help Center, Self-Help options in the Answers Knowledge Base, and virtual support. Educational Technology Technologies that allow instructors to manage, share, and develop course materials. R esearch Technology High-performance technology resources for researchers and their collaborators, as well as consulting services. SOFTWARE AND LICENSING Find discounted or free software available to UIC faculty and staff. UIC NETWORK AND WIRELESS nformation on accessing the UIC Virtual Private Network (VPN), UIC Wireless (UIC-WiFi), and 2-Factor Authentication (2FA). UIC HELP CENTER Your one-stop shop to discover IT services, find answers to technology-related questions, report IT issues, and request IT help. Health and Safety Resources Annual Safety and Security Report Information for a safer community. EMERGENCY INFORMATION Sign up for emergency alerts, stay informed. Environmental Health and Safety Promotes a safe and environmentally sound work environment. FAMILY MEDICAL CENTERS Two convenient locations for primary care services on campus. LACTATION ROOMS Designated space on campus to accommodate the needs of nursing mothers. ON-CAMPUS FLU VACCINATIONS Free flu shots for UIC employees and retirees will be offered on campus Oct. 19 and Oct. 26. STUDENTS WITH COMMUNICABLE ILLNESS NOTIFICATION PROTOCOL UIC’s protocol for confirmation and notification of communicable illness on campus. TOBACCO FREE UIC is a tobacco-free campus. UIC POLICE Your safety is a primary focus at UIC. UIC Ready Emergency preparedness and response. UIC SAFE APP FREE personal security tool that provides students, faculty and staff with added safety on the campus. UI HEALTH University of Illinois Hospital and Health Sciences System. Getting Around Resources Biking Resources on campus including free shower facilities for commuters, faculty & staff DIVVY discount, maps of amenities. Interactive map Find your UIC destination, including accessible routes and entrances. Parking services Information on parking, fees and special services. Traffic Alerts Information on traffic related to the Byrne (Circle) Interchange. TRANSPORTATION SERVICES Communications and UIC Brand Announcements / DDDH Guidelines and requirements for sending announcements and DDDH messages. Brand Guide Brand guidelines and marketing resources. Photo / video policies Policies and consent forms for photography and video on campus. Photography services High-quality photography at economical rates for the campus community. UIC Logos Download official logos for your department marketing resources. UIC Today News and events for the campus community. Financial and Budget Office of Business and Financial Services (OBFS) Supports the business and financial operations of the university. Training center Job aids and training material for business and financial operations. Who to ask Help finding the right department in OBFS for your questions Top Faculty and Staff News Marie Lynn Miranda named chancellor of the University of Illinois Chicago November 11, 2022 Miranda joins UIC after serving as provost at Notre Dame, Rice; brings focus on access and equity Accepting nominations for the 2022 Inventor of the Year November 1, 2022 The UIC Inventor of the Year Award The Inventor of […] Reminder: Town halls after the wellness symposium September 30, 2022 Dear UIC community: The University of Illinois System implemented the […] UIC Innovation Celebration honors researchers’ successful discoveries September 16, 2022 Event honors inventions that UIC professors have brought to market Official Campus Messages Pilot and feasibility funds to support UIC institutes for interdisciplinary research December 6, 2022 Dear colleagues, Last spring, we invited proposals for planning awards […] OVCR 2022 holiday schedule December 1, 2022 Dear colleagues, The upcoming holiday season is fast approaching and, […] Announcing the search for the dean of the UIC College of Business Administration November 30, 2022 Dear colleagues, Last week, we opened a national search for […] Tomorrow is GivingTuesday November 28, 2022 Dear colleagues, What I find common among many of us […] Top Faculty and Staff News Marie Lynn Miranda named chancellor of the University of Illinois Chicago November 11, 2022 Miranda joins UIC after serving as provost at Notre Dame, Rice; brings focus on access and equity Accepting nominations for the 2022 Inventor of the Year November 1, 2022 The UIC Inventor of the Year Award The Inventor of […] Reminder: Town halls after the wellness symposium September 30, 2022 Dear UIC community: The University of Illinois System implemented the […] Official Campus Communications Pilot and feasibility funds to support UIC institutes for interdisciplinary research December 6, 2022 Dear colleagues, Last spring, we invited proposals for planning awards […] OVCR 2022 holiday schedule December 1, 2022 Dear colleagues, The upcoming holiday season is fast approaching and, […] Announcing the search for the dean of the UIC College of Business Administration November 30, 2022 Dear colleagues, Last week, we opened a national search for […] UIC Logo UIC Today Contact Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications uictoday@uic.edu Social Media Accounts For the Media Experts Guide Submit Announcements Submit an Event Subscribe to UIC Today UIC in the news UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>