<DOCNO>886</DOCNO>
<URL>https://registrar.uic.edu/student_records/transcripts</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of the Registrar Main Menu Expand Current Students menu Expand Former Students menu Expand Faculty & Staff menu Eyebrow menu Prospective Students AES Staff Textbook Adoption UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of the Registrar Student Records Transcripts Transcripts Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link NOTE: Due to social distancing mandates related to COVID-19, we will not have pickup service for transcripts until further notice. The official transcript is the University’s statement of a student’s academic record issued by the Office of the Registrar. It lists all courses completed and grades earned in chronological order by term. Transcripts also contain notations of distinctions, transfer coursework summary, academic status, administrative actions and degrees received. Immediately after a term’s final exams have ended, transcripts listing final grades may not be available for a period of up to two weeks. Transcripts listing final degree awarded may not be available for a period of four to six weeks following final exams of the final term in which the degree is earned. Summary of transcript ordering options with cost and delivery details Transcript Type Ordering Method Processing & Delivery Price Details Electronic Transcript Online Next Business Day or Sooner $14.35 per copy The option to request electronic/PDF delivery appears in the final stages of ordering. You will be asked to provide a postal address for a recipient prior to selecting electronic/PDF delivery. Visit Order Electronic Transcript Paper Transcript Online 3-5 Business Days for Processing $16.65 per copy Current Students: order paper transcripts from my.uic.edu $16.65 per copy Non-current students: order paper transcripts from non-current-student system In writing 3-5 Business Days for Processing $12 per copy See section below about ordering transcripts in writing. Current Student Academic History Online Immediate Free Current students can view and print academic history via my.uic.edu . Check the status of your order. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Once logged in to my.uic.edu , search for Transcript Ordering. Indicate postal mailing address. If you are unable to access my.UIC.edu , you can still order transcripts from an online system . University Identification Number (UIN) is requested to assist us in processing your request. If you were enrolled in 1981 or later, you may have had a UIN assigned to you.  If you have difficulty retrieving your UIN, the Transcripts Office can process your transcript request using other information about you.  You’ll need your SSN and birthday to look up your UIN . The site will walk you through placing your order, including delivery options and fees. You can order as many transcripts as you like in a single session. A $2.35 processing fee will be charged per copy with additional fees for first class postal mailing, or express mailing of transcripts. Order updates will be emailed to all requestors and updates can be sent through cell phone texts if you choose. Order electronic transcript Please make sure that your recipient accepts transcripts via e-mailed secure PDF and that you have the correct email address. University Identification Number (UIN) is requested to assist us in processing your request. If you were enrolled in 1981 or later, you may have had a UIN assigned to you. If you have difficulty retrieving your UIN, the Transcripts Office can process your transcript request using other information about you. Social Security Number and birthday is required to look up your UIN . Cost per electronic copy is $14.35. Find my UIN *Note: Alumni of UIC School of Law (formerly of John Marshall Law school) prior to Fall 2021 might not be able to use the find my UIN feature. If you do not have access to the Internet or use of a credit card, transcripts may also be requested in writing. Print and complete the Transcript Request Form , or write a letter providing the information below: Full name (please include maiden name if applicable) University Identification Number (UIN) is requested to assist us in processing your request. If you were enrolled in 1981 or later, you may have had a UIN assigned to you.  If you have difficulty retrieving your UIN, the Transcripts Office can process your transcript request using other information about you. You’ll need your SSN and birthday to look up your UIN Social Security Number (SSN) is optional. If UIN unavailable, providing a SSN will greatly aid us in locating records. Current address Date of birth Dates of attendance Student’s college UIC Degree(s) Name(s) and address(es) to where transcript(s) will be sent Student’s original signature (unsigned requests cannot A check or money order payable to the ‘University of Illinois at Chicago’. Cost is $12 per copy. Mail your request to: Please note that transcripts are mailed first class standard via the United States Postal Service. If you require express mail service delivery of paper transcripts, select that option when ordering online. A Co-Curricular Transcript provides an official record of out-of-the-classroom student involvement, participation, awards, honors, and certificates. Co-Curricular Transcripts may include: student organization involvement, student organization leadership, community service, leadership training, workshops and seminars, awards, honors, and certifications. To order a Co-Curricular Transcript for current students visit: https://impact.uic.edu/ Transcripts from the Michael Reese School of Nursing may be obtained from the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). Print and complete the Michael Reese School of Nursing Transcript Request Form , or write a letter providing the information below: Full name (please include maiden name if applicable) Social Security Number (SSN) is optional, providing a SSN will greatly aid us in locating records. Current address Date of birth Dates of attendance Name(s) and address(es) to where transcript(s) will be sent Student’s original signature (unsigned requests cannot be processed) A check or money order payable to the ‘University of Illinois at Chicago’. Cost is $22 per copy. Mail your request to: Office of the Registrar (MC 018)
University of Illinois at Chicago
Suite 1200 Student Services Building
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161 For Federal Investigators with request for transcripts, 
please click Investigator Transcript Request link . A request may be submitted to delay printing the transcript until after grades are posted or degrees for the current semester have been recorded on the transcript.  However, if you are expecting a grade change , do not order your transcript until you are sure the grade has been changed. The Registrar will not hold transcripts for maintenance or grade changes. Transcript orders held for degrees are released approximately a day or two after your degree has been awarded in the system. If the status of your degree in Academic History of Self Service indicates that the degree has been Awarded and is no longer Pending prior to the release date listed on the Academic Calendar, you may contact the Transcripts Department Please refer to Transcripts Frequently Asked Questions . For additional information on transcripts please contact the Transcripts Department . Office hours: Phone: Email: TSCRIPTSLIST@listserv.uic.edu Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Registration Services Calendars Financial Matters Student Records Transcripts Campus Policies Registration FAQ Student Records Back to main content University of Illinois Chicago UIC Office of the Registrar Current & Former Students UIC Faculty & Staff Contact Us Contact Us! Sitemap Social Media Accounts Contact Office of the Registrar, MC 018 Suite 1200, Student Services Building 1200 West Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60607-7161 https://registrar.uic.edu/contact/ Phone: (312) 996-8600 registration@uic.edu Records Phone: (312) 996-4381 UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>