<DOCNO>9</DOCNO>
<URL>https://cs.uic.edu/cs-events/student-opportunities</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Computer Science Main Menu Expand Undergraduate menu Expand Graduate menu Expand Research menu Expand Faculty and Staff menu Expand News menu Expand Events menu Eyebrow menu Break Through Tech Give Alumni UIC Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search College of Engineering Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Computer Science Events Student Opportunities Student Opportunities Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The University of Iowa is hosting HACKUIOWA University of Tennessee Martin hosts its Technology against Tornado Student Competition and Expo The contest is designed to inspire and engage students by transforming their innovative ideas into real-world functional products to empower communities against tornadoes. Letter of intent to participate due November 1. US Department of Energy CyberForce Competition Registration will open in early July and close mid-August . All participants of the CyberForce® Program will be invited to join a virtual career fair held in the Fall of 2022. Industry, national laboratories, and federal agencies will be in attendance to recruit for jobs and internships for their agencies. check here regularly for upcoming events Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Argonne National Laboratory internships: Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Google’s 2023A CS Research Mentorship Program: This 12-week mentorship program aims to support students from historically marginalized groups to progress in computing research pathways. This can include students with marginalized gender and racial/ethnic identities, students with disabilities, students from low socioeconomic status, first-generation students, and intersections of these groups and others. Learn more and apply now for the January-April mentorship cycle . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Chris Jackson Computer Science Education Scholarship: Learn more, find out the next available application deadline, and submit your application here . Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link We strongly encourage UIC CS students to sign up for hackathon competitions. Here are some reasons why: Meeting new people. Developing your résumé. Enhancing your job interviews. Winning! Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link UIC students have placed highly in these hackathon events: BuiltWorlds Hackathon 2019: Riccardo Pressiani, Matteo Foglio, Guido Muscioni, Francesco Sgherzi, Chiara Gambacorta, and Giulia Soresini, Grand Prize Google Tech Challenge 2019: 3rd place, 5th place MIT Energy Hack 2018: Chirag Soni, MS ’19 BuiltWorlds Hackathon 2018: Giovanni Agugini Bassi, Iacopo Olivo, and Francesco Pinci, all MS ’19 Mobility Hackathon Chicago: The Roiti Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Research experiences for undergraduates —called REUs for short—offer undergraduate students the opportunity to complete career-building research projects over the summer. REUs are competitive (with students chosen for the research positions by application) and often are held at universities other than your home institution. Most REUs are sponsored with funding from the National Science Foundation REUs make excellent résumé entries and offer valuable hands-on experience that you can talk about in job interviews. If you have your eye on a master’s degree or PhD after graduation, REUs provide a head start on building your research experience and could give you insight on what you might like to pursue in graduate school. Think of REUs as a great way to get research experience while trying out living in a different place. Events Back to main content CS calendar Lectures and Seminars Student Opportunities Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Linked In xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact: 851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3422 cs-info@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield</TEXT>