<DOCNO>956</DOCNO>
<URL>https://library.uic.edu/news-stories/restorative-justice-information-and-planning-forum</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago University Library Main Menu Expand Help menu Expand Collections menu Expand Libraries menu Expand About menu Expand Services menu Eyebrow menu Hours Contact Us My Accounts Give to the Library UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Restorative Justice: Information and Planning Forum Posted on October 17, 2022 Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this via email Date and Time: Fri., Nov. 11, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. Location: UIC College of Nursing, 3rd Fl. Event Center, 845 S. Damen, Chicago View event Zoom recording Get involved and attend future events View full invitation Find out how restorative justice recognizes active responsibility, repairs harms and builds communities for a better future. Discuss how restorative justice can be implemented by UIC. Program 10 a.m. - 10:10 a.m. - Welcome and Introduction Geraldine Gorman, RN, Ph.D., Clinical Professor, Kathleen M. Irwin Endowed Chair in Outstanding Clinical Practice, UIC College of Nursing 10:10 a.m. - 10:25 a.m. - "Philosophy and Practice of Restorative Justice" Fr. David Kelly, CPPS, Executive Director, Precious Blood Ministry of Reconciliation 10:25 a.m. - 10:40 a.m. - "The Peace Circle Process" Pamela Purdie, Restorative Justice Practitioner and Trainer, Precious Blood Ministry of Reconciliation 10:40 a.m. - 10:55 a.m. - "Restorative Justice in Law" (and at the UIC School of Law) Michael P. Seng, JD, Professor of Law and Director, Fair Housing Legal Support Center, UIC Law 10:55 a.m.- 11:10 a.m. - "Restorative Justice and Community Partnerships" Gabriela Peña, MPH, Associate Director, UIC-Partnerships for Anti-racist Campus Transformation (UIC PACT) 11:10 a.m. - 12 p.m. - General Discussion/Q+A Open to the UIC community. Masks required for attendees. Sponsored by College of Nursing For questions, contact Geraldine Gorman, RN, Ph.D. ggorman@uic.edu Modified on November 22, 2022 Library Locations Richard J. Daley Library Library of the Health Sciences-Chicago Library of the Health Sciences-Peoria Crawford Library of the Health Sciences-Rockford UIC School of Law Library Footer Menu Library Home My Accounts Accessibility Services Visitor Services Faculty Services Alumni Services Admin login Library Hours Contact Us Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? YouTube Contact Richard J. Daley Library, 801 S. Morgan, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-2716 lib-help@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Chat with a Librarian Close</TEXT>