<DOCNO>973</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/about-us/giving</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Office of Global Engagement About Us Giving to Support UIC Students Giving to Support UIC Students Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The approximately 4,000 international students and scholars UIC welcomes to our community are a vital component to our global engagement and international partnerships. These students bring an incredible diversity of experiences and perspectives to the shared academic and lived experience of being part of UIC. But when a disaster strikes one of our international students, UIC has an opportunity to repay what we have received from our international community by providing immediate and temporary support for the student in a time of medical or political crisis. Please consider giving generously to this fund. Give now Studying abroad affords students a wide variety of personal, professional, and academic benefits. However, nationally, only 10% of U.S. undergraduates participate in a study abroad experience due to cost often being the number one obstacle. The UIC Study Abroad Accessible Frontiers Fund was established to expand access to study abroad, especially for UIC’s diverse student population, many of whom are traditionally underrepresented. One of the key initiatives supported by this fund is UIC’s First Year Flames Abroad Give now Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The Chancellor’s FirstGen Flames Abroad Scholarship In addition to the scholarship, recipients will participate as a cohort in a series of guided workshops designed to address these and other topics. The scholarship program is open to any first-generation, first-year undergraduate student. Please consider supporting first-generation UIC students who plan to study abroad. Give now This new scholarship supports degree-seeking undergraduate international students who are entering their third or fourth year but whose changed financial circumstances will prevent them from finishing their academic program at UIC. Eligible students will include any undergraduate degree-seeking student studying at UIC under an international student visa. Criteria for the scholarship will include academic merit and contributions to the UIC and Chicago community. The length of the scholarship award will not exceed two years in duration. Please consider giving generously to this new scholarship. Give now Scholarship support for students at the Intensive English Program at the Office of Global Engagement (tuition, fees, books, housing, materials, and other expenses directly related to attendance). Give now About Back to main content Leadership OGE Staff Directory Diplomat in Residence Donate/Giving News University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>