<DOCNO>980</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/uic-global-partnership</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search UIC Global Partnership Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Partnership The University of Illinois at Chicago launched UIC Global, its partnership with Shorelight Education, in January 2017. Chancellor Michael Amiridis and Provost Susan Poser envisioned UIC Global as a key part of the University’s strategy to increase undergraduate international student enrollment at UIC.  In addition to other benefits, increasing the international student population provides an opportunity to create a more globally engaged campus, bringing together students from diverse international and U.S. backgrounds in our classrooms, residence halls, dining facilities, and other venues. Program Undergraduate UIC Global students are admitted to one of four program options based on the student’s English proficiency and academic record: ● English as a Second Language (ESL) or Pre-Sessional English (PSE): English language study at OGE’s Tutorium in Intensive English. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link After completing the UIC Global Program, students who meet UIC’s progression criteria are integrated into their UIC academic program with the general student population. In addition, UIC partnered with UIC Global and Shorelight Education to launch the UIC Global Graduate Direct Program in 2019.  Through this program, UIC Global recruits and screens high-quality applicants to more than 30 UIC masters programs. The relevant academic program or department reviews and selects the best students from the applicant pool.  This approach engages UIC colleges to recruit a strong and diverse set of students from around the U.S. and the globe. For both the undergraduate and graduate programs, UIC Global and Shorelight Education use several regional overseas centers and a web of international recruiters embedded in countries around the world to attract and support international students and their parents who face the daunting challenge of selecting a university abroad.  UIC Global also works in close partnership with key UIC offices such as Admissions, the Office of International Services, and colleges to bring high performing students to UIC.  The result to date is more than 1,200 undergraduate and graduate students who are in the UIC Global program or have progressed in their academic programs. Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>