<DOCNO>986</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/funding-opportunities</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Funding Opportunities There are many funding opportunities available to faculty and students wishing to engage in global academic scholarship. The below list is a sampling of what is available both at UIC and through organizations from around the world. On this page: Faculty Awards Student Awards Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Nuveen Grants for International Research Collaboration with Strategic Partners These awards are intended to encourage international research collaboration that serves the University’s research mission while supporting the University’s global engagement vision to “serve the citizens of Chicago and the world by being an international leader in research, scholarship, and innovation, and by creating a globally connected campus community which supports faculty, staff, and students as they address the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century.” Two awards of up to $5,000 each will be awarded in the 2022-2023 cycle. Nuveen Grants will be awarded to full-time UIC faculty members seeking to create and sustain global engagement through globally engaged collaborative research with strategic partners outside the U.S.  Collaborative research with faculty at an international partner university and with demonstrated support from that partner university will be given the highest priority.  Proposals that also include undergraduate and/or graduate student opportunities will be given higher priority. Grant funds cannot be used for any equipment that must be inventoried by UIC.  If funds are for intended salaries (including student researchers or workers), fringe benefits must be added to the estimated salary amount.  Each recipient must provide the department/college business administrative associate who will confirm with OGE the eligibility of each transaction resulting from the grant. Application materials must include: Completed application form, one page narrative statement (detailed description on the application page), itemized budget, endorsement statement from applicant’s Dean or their delegate, and statement of support from dean or corresponding official from the institution of the applicant’s research collaborator. Complete applications must be submitted by 5:00 pm Central time on Friday, October 21, 2022. Apply for this grant Nuveen Grants for Campus Internationalization These awards are intended to encourage internationalization of the UIC campus in support of the University’s global engagement vision to “serve the citizens of Chicago and the world by being an international leader in research, scholarship, and innovation, and by creating a globally connected campus community which supports faculty, staff, and students as they address the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century.” Two awards of up to $2,500 each will be awarded for the 2022-2023 cycle. Nuveen Grants will be awarded to full-time faculty or staff members seeking to create and sustain global engagement through on-campus internationalization, including but not limited to creating Global Virtual Exchange Classrooms , internationalization of the curriculum, international conferences or programming, and international cross-cultural dialogues or other forms of global engagement on UIC’s campus.  Proposals that demonstrate a significant impact upon students’ global learning will receive the highest priority. Grant funds cannot be used for any equipment that must be inventoried by UIC.  If funds are for intended salaries (including student researchers or workers), fringe benefits must be added to the estimated salary amount.  Each recipient must provide the department/college business administrative associate who will confirm with OGE the eligibility of each transaction resulting from the grant. Application materials must include: Completed application form, one page narrative statement (detailed description on the application page), itemized budget, and endorsement statement from applicant’s Dean or their delegate. Complete applications must be submitted by 5:00 pm Central time on Friday, October 21, 2022. Apply for this grant Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link Chicago Consular Corps Scholarship UIC international students are invited to apply for the Chicago Consular Corps Scholarship. This award honors the Chicago Consular Corps’ commitment to education and cultural exchanges that foster international understanding, and supports the academic and professional development of our international students. More about the Chicago Consular Corps Scholarship Study Abroad Student Grants and Scholarships There are a variety of nationally competitive, regionally focused, UIC housed, and program sponsor scholarship opportunities for study abroad. Additionally, in order to help make study abroad financially accessible to as many students as possible, the Study Abroad Office has negotiated with our academic partners to create automatic grants for every UIC student accepted into their program. These grants are deducted from the program cost. More about grants and scholarships for study abroad Office of International Services Scholarships and Awards The Office of International Services is honored to administer the Laurette Kirstein Scholarship Program for UIC International Students. The scholarship is funded by the estate of Professor Kirstein who founded the Office of International Services in 1961 and served as its Director until 1993. Currently enrolled international students are invited to apply each spring for an award in the form of a student account credit for tuition, books, and living expenses. The International Student Ambassador Service Award (ISASA) is given in collaboration with the Chancellor’s Student Service & Leadership Awards each year. The ISASA recognizes international students who are attending UIC on an international student visa and have made an outstanding contribution to the University through campus and/or community service, particularly by contributing to greater knowledge and understanding across our diverse national cultures. More about these scholarships and awards University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>