<DOCNO>990</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/international-collaborations/ui-system-unam-joint-research-partnership-program</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Breadcrumbs Office of Global Engagement International Collaborations UI System/UNAM Joint Research Partnership Program UI System/UNAM Joint Research Partnership Program Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The University of Illinois System and the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) have established a joint seed research grants program for one year, starting with the academic year 2022-23. This program will fund projects in three thematic areas: .The overarching goal is to contribute towards solving problems related to Poverty, the Environment, and Sustainable well-being . Transdisciplinary approaches will be particularly welcome. This Request for Proposals is soliciting proposals forfunding under this joint program. Only joint proposals with at least one principal investigator from each university will be eligible to apply for funding under this program. Only tenure-track faculty can serve as principal investigators. All proposals will be evaluated by a joint review committee of faculty and scientists appointed by the President of the University of Illinois System and the Rector of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Méxicoor their designees. Decisions of the joint review committee will be final. Both universities will have an equal number of members on this committee. Evaluation criteria will include: technical quality, relevance of the topic, degree of collaboration and interaction, evidence of prior collaborative work, graduate and/or undergraduate student participation. Each institution is investing $100,000 dollars in this collaborative research program for one year. The seed funds are not transferable between institutions. Each university will fund only its principalinvestigators participating in the joint proposals selected by the joint review committee. A proposal can have a budget request of no more than $40,000 dollars jointly, resulting in 5 joint awards annually. The cap of $20,000 dollars awarded by each institution for each selected project must be used not later than December 31, 2023. The submissions should conform to the outline attached, including a timeline for the completion of various tasks related to the project. Applications will have a limit of four (4) pages, excluding the title page, references, and appendices. Proposals should be submitted by December15, 2022 in English and Spanish ui-mexico@uillinois.edu https://go.illinois.edu/UNAM-UI . The Illinois Mexican & Mexican-American Students Initiative (I-MMAS) and the Coordinación de la Investigación Científicaof UNAM will jointly manage the entire request for proposal process. Results will be available by January 31, 2023. Funds will be available by February 2023. University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>