<DOCNO>992</DOCNO>
<URL>https://oge.uic.edu/news-stories/uic-named-2022-hsi-leader-by-fulbright-program</URL>
<TEXT>Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site University of Illinois Chicago Office of Global Engagement Main Menu Expand About menu Expand Student Resources menu Eyebrow menu UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search UIC named 2022 HSI leader by Fulbright Program Posted on October 16, 2022 Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this via email Heading link xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"? Copy link The University of Illinois Chicago has been named a Fulbright Hispanic-Serving Institution Leader for the second year in a row by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. UIC and 42 other HSIs were conferred Fulbright HSI Leader status for demonstrating noteworthy engagement with Fulbright exchange participants during the 2021-2022 academic year and campus promotion of opportunities offered by the Fulbright Program , the U.S. government’s flagship international academic exchange program. The leaders were announced this week during an international plenary session at the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities’ annual conference. “The Fulbright Program offers a tremendous opportunity to internationalize students — undergraduate and graduate — and faculty while building global networks. We are proud, once again, to earn this important national recognition for our international exchange commitment,” UIC Interim Chancellor Javier Reyes said. “UIC students and faculty, as well as visiting students and scholars, are supported by staff whose dedicated efforts to recruit, advise and provide resources are all focused on their success in these impactful programs.” The Fulbright U.S. Student Program is administered at UIC by Kim Germain, director of the Office of Undergraduate Research and External Fellowships and Fulbright Program adviser for undergraduate students and alumni, and Benn Williams, fellowships and awards coordinator in the Graduate College and Fulbright Program adviser for graduate and professional students. They are assisted by Lindsay Marshall, a writing specialist and academic adviser in the Graduate College. Shawn Conner-Rondot, director of international affairs and outreach in the Office of Global Engagement, is the UIC contact for the Fulbright Scholar Program (visiting foreign students and non-U.S. scholars) and is also a liaison to the Fulbright Program for U.S. Scholars (UIC faculty). Working with Melissa Hickok and Ben Wright in the Office of International Services, Williams is also the unofficial liaison for the Foreign Student Program. The Fulbright HSI Leaders initiative was established in 2021 to recognize the strong partnerships between the Fulbright Program and selected HSIs, and to encourage all HSIs to increase engagement with Fulbright. It is part of the State Department’s longstanding commitment to building diversity and inclusion within the Fulbright Program and the bureau’s international exchange programs. Speaking on behalf of ECA, which sponsors the Fulbright Program, Ethan Rosenzweig, deputy assistant secretary of state for academic programs, noted the strong relationship between HSIs and the Fulbright Program. “The Fulbright Program’s success with HSIs is built on real collaboration with you and your institutions,” he said. Since its inception over 75 years ago, the Fulbright Program has given over 400,000 talented and accomplished students, scholars, teachers, artists and professionals of all backgrounds and fields the opportunity to study, teach, and conduct research abroad, exchange ideas, and contribute to finding solutions to complex international challenges. Each year, the U.S. Congress appropriates funds for the U.S. Department of State to sponsor the Fulbright Program. Many foreign governments contribute substantially as well. Additional funding and in-kind funding is provided by U.S. and foreign host institutions, non-governmental organizations, private organizations, corporate partnerships and individual donors. Contact Brian Flood bflood@uic.edu twitter.com/bflooduic University of Illinois Chicago Other Resources Center for Global Health Global Women's Health Fellowship Language and Culture Learning Center The African American Cultural Center The Arab American Cultural Center The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center The Latino Cultural Center Helpful Links UIC Campus Map UIC Academic Calendar Ask UIC UIC Today UIC Events U.S. Department of State (International Travel) Chicago Sister Cities International Chicago Office of New Americans Choose Chicago For OGE Faculty & Staff OGE Intranet OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award OGE Professional Development Grant Social Media Accounts xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Facebook xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Twitter xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? Instagram Contact 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 413-2799 oge@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.51 | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Google Translate</TEXT>